Warsh will say [music] there's
tremendous uncertainty. I expect his
tone will be a little bit more dovish.
>> Too high inflation, strong labor market,
that argues of course for the Fed needs
to move towards a more hawkish stance.
>> The Fed's primary job is controlling
[music] inflation.
>> It's a long shot to call for a rate cut
this year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Welcome to the Fed, Kevin
Warsh. Market is looking for guidance
from the new Fed chair with the central
bank's rate decision coming later
[music] this afternoon. Investors
bracing for more volatility as SpaceX
surpasses Amazon as the world's [music]
fifth largest company even with rates a
bit higher than they had been and with
details emerging
>> [music]
>> about the memorandum of understanding
between the US and Iran's financial
benefits coming [music] right now to
Iran.
>> And you know what, Lisa, these stories
are really intertwined. We might have
easier [music] inflation.
>> Not so high inflation given the fact
that we're going to see more oil flowing
if the Strait of Hormuz [music] does
open in earnest and also this
administration, if you look at the MOU
that the Bloomberg our Bloomberg
colleagues got a hold [music] of, it
looks like more Iranian crude is going
to be able to get to market. We're going
to see some sort of waivers on Iranian
crude. [music]
So you are going to see oil prices
potentially even lower than they are
today.
>> And right now we're looking at oil
prices that are about $6 [music] to $9
above where they were before this
conflict started on February 28th of
this year, which raises this issue. Is
the inflationary push [music] that we've
been seeing entirely due to the oil
price increases or is there something
else behind it that Kevin Warsh has
[music] to pay a bit more attention to?
>> Well, this is going to be the big debate
amongst him and his his new colleagues
as he takes over in the new era of Kevin
Warsh. [music] Part of it is going to be
potentially they're going to see
disinflation when it comes to the oil
prices. And Citi yesterday was talking
about how now they think there's a
dovish risk to today's meeting because
of what we're seeing in oil prices, but
then there's the entire AI trade and
build out and all the capital
expenditures that is going to that
trade. And in that, at least in the
short term, I know what he's going to
say long term, but in the short term,
does that put inflationary pressures on
this economy?
>> There are inflationary [music] pressures
in Elon Musk's bank account because
right now we have seen SpaceX become the
fifth largest company in the world
surpassing Amazon even though people
talk about the fact that its earnings
are a fraction [music]
of Amazon's total earnings and this is a
new company less than a week after its
IPO and suddenly it has hurtled to
almost $3 trillion valuation. Is this a
bubble? Is this healthy? A lot of
volatility in some of the memory stocks,
the chip stocks over the past couple of
[music] days. SpaceX on a fourth poised
for a fourth day of gains. At what
[music] point is it just too much?
>> Well, this is a big test to the market.
How much can the market digest? Well,
they're certainly digesting SpaceX. Will
they Are they going to digest more down
the road the rest of [music] this year
when we get these liquidity events? When
you talk about revenue of SpaceX,
all the banks are saying it's going to
be by 2030, maybe close [music] to $500
billion. Well, Elon Musk says that it's
going to be $1 trillion. And if you
believe in that, then potentially,
[music]
you know, where the stock price is
trading right now makes more sense.
>> A trillion here, a trillion there. I
think that right now Elon Musk's net
[music] worth is equal to about the
total net worth of the five next richest
people in the world. Right [music] now
we're looking at a market that is trying
to inflect higher after yesterday's
sell-off led by the tech trade. This has
been incredibly volatile. Yesterday it
led the way down, today it's leading the
charge up. [music] Four tenths of a
percent essentially flat on S&P, as flat
on the Russell 2000. Can we get a
broadening out? A lot of that is hinged
to the bond trade. Do we see a rally
into bonds [music]
after the news conference today? Who is
the real Kevin Warsh? Remember he was
the youngest [music] chair He was
youngest governor on the Federal Reserve
board back in 2006 when he was nominated
under George Bush. Now, can he come out?
Is he going to be hawkish the way
[music] he was or is he going to be a
dove? And if you believe this through,
ultimately a lot of this has to do as
Anne Marie was talking about with the
oil [music] market, continuing to see it
hold below $80 a barrel. Although today,
>> [music]
>> some questions about the MOU, whether it
will stick, whether this is going to be
something that can truly bring an
inflection [music] point for the
conflict. Coming up this hour, George
Goncalves of MUFG as Wall Street awaits
a Fed rate decision. Stephen Cook of the
Council on Foreign Relations as details
of the US-Iran truce emerge. And Henry
Schwartz of Cboe as SpaceX soars past
Amazon in market cap and trading rises
to records. We begin this hour with
stocks pushing higher. Treasuries
holding steady as investors look to
Kevin Warsh and his first moves as Fed
chair. George Goncalves of MUFG writing,
"Inflation concerns have been misplaced
and rates may have seen the high prints
for 2026." That plus Warsh talking hikes
off the table is about to unleash a bond
rally. George joins us here this
morning. George, great to see you.
>> Great to see you. Happy Fed day.
>> Happy Fed day if you celebrate. Real
question about how much this bond market
can rally given some of the inflationary
pressures that yes are tied to oil but
also to some other issues as well.
>> Yeah, look, I think we are entering a
summer of the bond market. I think we
probably have seen the high prints for
for rates
for a whole host of reasons. Look, oil
prices even in the midst of like
literally a billion plus barrels of like
less production getting through the
Strait of Hormuz managed to stay
contained, right? So like this idea that
you're going to see like a second wave
of higher oil prices, I don't buy that.
We don't buy that. We've been skeptical
of the move in general. And inflation
has largely come from the inflation from
the oil shock and then some second order
round effects around
you know some some sort of pricing
surcharges that were added to core
prices. But in general, there's not a
really an problem. Look at wages, look
at the way that the
the jobs market's behaving. It's still
low-paying jobs. You're not seeing the
the sort of impulse of inflation. We
think that we've kind of seen the
highest in rates.
>> So, we'll get to the economic discussion
later because there's a lot of
divergence even within pros about
exactly whether all of that is true in
terms of wages and some other aspects.
Do you think that Kevin Warsh truly can
unleash the summer of bonds given the
fact that ultimately he's really
squaring off against credibility on one
hand and the overhang of what could be
coming from the White House in the
other?
>> Look, I think we everyone has to temper
their enthusiasm including myself cuz
you know, we have let's see what happens
with the the MOU and if that gets
gets done as a done deal by tomorrow I
think, right?
So, like let's see what I mean we're
Friday. Let's see what happens there.
Um
but uh I think you know, we're going to
start off at 2:00 into into 2:30, right?
2:00 we're going to see did A Kevin
Warsh participate in the dot plot
submission process? Like that's going to
be a big deal.
Uh and like what are the dots telling
us? Is there going to be like a a
removal of the easing bias? I
I at the first at first blush I think
this is going to be a kind of gradual
toe in to becoming more like a a change
at the Fed but we don't see a drastic
change at the Fed starting off today but
we do think that you know, this is going
to he's going to start pivoting the Fed
differently and that's going to
rearrange the focus and less forward
guidance and a shift from you know,
focusing on other policies towards rate
policy. I think that if if inflation
truly has peaked, if oil has peaked, if
rates have peaked, then you're going to
see you can open up a window to cut
rates at the end of the year.
>> Does the labor market need to weaken
further? I mean, it's not weak now but
does it need to weaken for him to be
able to cut interest rates?
>> I mean, I think we have to realize we
have to like look back and and see if
the if the labor data actually is
honest. We've had 2 years in a row of
massive revisions every single year.
And yet the the later we get in the year
we'll get more clarity on the true
health of the jobs market. So, it
doesn't have to necessarily weaken. I I
it just has to be a combination of it's
not strong and as people think it is and
two the inflation story probably has
peaked. It gives a window for the Fed to
cut.
>> But they're not going to get back to the
2% target this year.
So what is going to be the catalyst for
them to really have that confidence
given the fact that there are a lot of
members on the committee that are
concerned that
>> Sure.
>> basically inflation is prices are still
too high and the labor market's not weak
enough to have this bias.
>> I mean look there's a whole host of
things. I mean it depending on how you
look at
the data and you look at real pure cores
you you can get down towards uh you know
mid mid-twos by the end of the year and
into projecting into 2027 you can start
to get into the twos. So I think um
it's not about you know and plus by the
way we we we the Fed has eased the last
two years with inflation well above
their target, right? So it's more about
what's your understanding of neutral and
that's why I think today's
A we get we get the dot plot most
likely. How the dot plot looks like
and then what is the glide path from
this year which we think they're going
to remove the the one potential cut that
was in the last forecast or projections
and what what is the path towards
neutral cuz like they've been very
gingerly moving up neutral rate. It's
about about 3 1/8. Are they going to
move that up now at Kevin Warsh's first
meeting? That would make no sense. So
like they have to get down to neutral or
redefine what neutral is.
>> Well, that's something people are
looking for. What is inflation? If you
could choose your inflation, is it an
inflation target that we're going to
care more about? I'll choose one
inflation target. How about anyone who's
invested either in cursor or SpaceX and
the new billionaires that have invented
there's some inflation there given the
fact that markets have absolutely been
on a tear. How does that factor into the
Fed's assessment of current conditions?
>> I mean look it's it's it's the going is
is is great when it's going. Um
the question is how's it look like at
the end of the year? And we've had
moments where we have these massive
euphoric moves like we're in right now
and then they peter out and they burn
out. So the question is is if the
momentum continues and stocks continue
to make new highs, yes then you're
you're building in financial conditions
easing, which takes pressure off the Fed
to do anything. Or like at least in
their calculus, it would be less of a
need to to ease. But that's really a
judgment call on where you think markets
are going to be at the end of the year.
>> If you put this another way, is the
summer of the bond going to be also the
summer of the stock? Cuz we've seen
correlations between stocks and bonds
bonds essentially go to one, right?
They've been directly correlated rather
than inversely correlated as they have
been historically. Why wouldn't any
additional bond rally just continue to
fuel an even bigger move in the equity
market?
>> I mean for like the long duration type
sectors like technology probably would,
right? I mean until something breaks
that correlation down completely, it
probably would have kind of a
self-reinforcing mechanism.
But you know, I I do think that you
know, as we get towards the end of the
year and we realize that our more
optimistic outlook collectively the
market's more optimistic view on the on
the macro is proven wrong, you're going
to see the bond market end up winning
out versus the stock market.
>> George, wonderful to see you. Thank you
so much for being with us this morning.
George Goncalves of MUFG on this morning
where Kevin Warsh leads his his tenure
at the Federal Reserve. He was the
youngest Fed governor back in 2006 when
he first came in. He left in 2011 after
the financial crisis. Now coming back at
a moment of real question and given our
previous you've mentioned before AM
Edge, given the fact that we've seen a
subsiding in the tensions in the Middle
East.
>> of a gift to him this week that he kicks
kicks off and you have Brent crude
trading and holding as of yesterday
under $80 a barrel. That is definitely
going to be a massive sigh of relief for
Kevin Warsh as he greets the press and
his colleagues. Bank of America has a
note out this morning is he hawk, dove,
or none of the above? I love how you've
been saying will the real Kevin Warsh
stand up because when he was governor
and the youngest governor, he was an
inflation hawk. And then of course
during his interview process with the
president, he leaned very dovish. Think
the world really wants to understand
where he sees the economy and the Fed
going forward.
>> Yeah, a lot of change between 35 and
uh, you know, however many years later.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomberg Brief with Bonnie Quinn.
>> [music]
>> Lisa, thank you. Details are emerging of
the US-Iran interim peace deal. The
draft of the memorandum of understanding
shows Iran [music] is set to receive
sanctions waivers that allow it to sell
oil immediately with other financial
incentives deferred.
SpaceX overtaking Amazon in value to
become the fifth largest stock in the
world. Shares closed nearly 5% higher
pushing [music] its market cap to $2.65
trillion.
At the stock's intraday high, SpaceX
topped Microsoft to [music] briefly
become the world's fourth largest stock.
The NBA finals drawing a massive
audience of 20.6 million viewers per
game making it the most watched since
[music] 1998. Game five scored the
highest viewership in the series with
24.5 million people watching
>> [music]
>> as the Knicks beat the Spurs to win
their first championship in 53 years.
That's your Bloomberg [music] Brief,
Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. Did you see
people with televisions on their heads
and broadcasting it? I'm this walls of
buildings.
>> Yes, my favorite is the projecting it
onto buildings. But, you know what's
even better than watching it on TV?
>> Oh, god. Don't even
>> Being at game five.
>> Don't even start it. She still has the
glow, you know, many days later. Up
next, learning the details of the deal.
>> We just signed a deal with Iran. Israel
says
Iran will never have a nuclear weapon.
In addition to that, the strait is going
to be open to all free. We were focused
on Iran. That's going to be
in the back in the rearview mirror.
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations joins us. To this is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> Trying to get a bit of a gain this
morning after yesterday seeing its
decline led by the tech stocks, led by
the memory chips, led by some of the
high flyers that we've seen really lead
the charge up on up days and lead the
charge down on down days. Today, [music]
a rare respite from some of that
incredible volatility at least at the
headline level, essentially flat on S&P
futures seeing just a little bit of
dollar strength. And this all being led
by what's going on in the crude [music]
space. Crude essentially flat up about a
third of percent. Although still far
below $80 a barrel on WTI, $76 [music]
and 33 cents. Really notable given how
much potentially has to be brought
[music] back online in the yield space.
10-year yields 4.43%
down just a touch this morning ahead of
that Fed meeting. A real question for
Kevin Warsh, how much does this actually
give him a reprieve given this concern
that inflation's [music] coming from
many places? It seems like this morning
everyone's saying actually maybe it
really is just an oil story. [music]
>> Potentially it's just an oil story right
now, but you have to think about some of
the other price pressures we are seeing
in this economy when it comes to the AI
build-out. We're obviously [music]
seeing it in the financial markets, but
we're seeing some of that as well when
it comes to the real economy. But this
is a gift for him to walk into this
meeting and say, "Look, as many people
have said, like tariffs, you can look
[music] through energy price shocks."
The issue is of course, and you brought
this up, how quickly do we get back to
pre-conflict era of 20 million barrels a
day flowing through the Strait of
Hormuz.
>> Yeah, I'm told it's the start of a deal
and it's going to be a little bit messy.
>> We're getting some details but really a
question of whether this will stick. And
what exactly is all in that memorandum
of understanding? Under surveillance
this morning learning the details
[music] of the deal.
>> We just
signed a deal with Iran. Here's what it
says.
Iran will never have a nuclear weapon.
In addition to that, the strait is going
to be open toll-free. We were focused on
Iran. That's going to be
in the back, in the rearview mirror. And
I'll go over the document with the
media
in a couple of days.
>> Here's the latest. The US and Iran
planning to formally sign a peace deal
on Friday. The interim agreement set to
bring major financial relief to Tehran.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us for
more from Aviano, France. Uh Tyler, what
do we know so far about this MOU?
>> Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, according
to a draft of the MOU seen by Bloomberg
News, Iran is set to be able to
immediately sell its oil to market once
this deal is signed. For context here,
the US has long maintained that any
financial relief for Iran would be
conditioned and accrue based on progress
and whether or not Iran is upholding its
end of the deal. But this would be an
immediate point that Iran would be able
to access as the US Treasury Department
is set to issue waivers for the export
of Iranian crude and petrochemical
products. In relation to this, the US
will also immediately lift its its US
naval blockade even before the Strait of
Hormuz is fully reopened. Though the
goal, of course, is to get the strait
opened within the first 30 days of the
ceasefire extension, which we know will
take time considering that they still
need to clear some mines that are in the
strait. The MOU also outlines that there
will be financing for about 300 billion
dollars uh that Iran can access in what
is being called a development fund to
help rebuild the country. Though the
draft text of the agreement does say
that the actual vehicle, the mechanisms
to deploy this still need to be worked
out and would aim to be in the 60-day
negotiating period. It is uh becoming
clearer that it seems that the US is
trying to use some carrots rather than
sticks here to get Iran to the
negotiating table for those potential
curbs on its nuclear program as the
White House maintains that they are
looking for a finalized deal that will
include the retrieval of Iran's
stockpile of highly enriched uranium, uh
curbs on Iran's nuclear program when it
comes uh to the moratorium potentially
on uranium enrichment and also a very
stringent inspection regime. Lisa, I'll
put one other thing on your radar that
potentially could complicate things. The
text of the MOU does say that all the
ceasefire will extend to the fighting in
Lebanon as well, which would include
Israel's front against the Iranian
backed militant group Hezbollah.
>> Heather Kendall, thank you so much as
always and we'll be catching up with you
throughout the day. Stephen Cook of the
Council on Foreign Relations writing
clearly the president was done and
grabbed the deal before him. He is going
to spin it as a victory, but it heavily
favors Iran. This raises the question,
why did we even go to war? Stephen joins
us now for more. Stephen, why do you say
that this is giving a win to Iran given
that we don't really know all the
details yet?
>> Well, we have a fairly good sense of
what is going to be in this deal based
on what's been leaking out to to
Bloomberg, to Al Arabiya English and a
variety of other news outlets. And what
we've seen so far would suggest that the
Iranians will retain their right to
enrich uranium. They'll have be able to
export oil immediately. The blockade
will be lifted. Although the Iranians
are saying that there will be freedom of
navigation through the Strait of Hormuz,
but only for 60 days and then they will
levy a surcharge on transit through that
waterway.
Then of course there's nothing in the
document about
dismantling proxies.
Yes, giving up the highly enriched
uranium, but if they can enrich uranium,
they can replace that stock of highly
enriched uranium. Basically,
the United States walks away from this
with a lot of tactical battlefield
achievements, but
what can only be described as a
strategic defeat.
>> Stephen, I also noticed that there is no
language when it comes to Iran's
ballistic missile program. Has the Trump
administration given up their three red
lines, which have always been for years,
nuclear ballistic missiles, and money to
proxies?
>> Uh
yes, indeed, they have given it up.
There is nothing that we know of
regarding ballistic missiles.
Uh the United States and the Israelis
did a lot of damage to the ballistic
missile program, but the fear is is that
all of these resources that can flow
into Iran, including the revenue from
immediately exporting oil, can be
devoted to reconstructing
um their capacity to build ballistic
missiles. And it is one of the biggest
ballistic missile programs in the world.
>> So, the first point, and Tyler brought
this up according to the text Bloomberg
has its hand on when it comes to the
MOU, means that this would include a
permanent end to the war on all fronts,
quote, including Lebanon. Is Israel in
agreement with this?
>> Absolutely not. Uh the Israelis maintain
that they will not give to Iran a veto
over their uh security. The But the
Israelis are in a very difficult
position.
Uh if Hezbollah attacks and the Israelis
respond in a neighborhood of Beirut, for
example, the Iranians will threaten to
close the Strait of Hormuz once again,
putting tremendous pressure on the
global economy, as we've seen over the
course of this war.
But Israelis are in an election season,
and Prime Minister Netanyahu is not
going to give up the fight in Lebanon,
which is actually quite popular among
Israelis, as President Trump's
popularity among Israelis has dropped
precipitously in recent weeks.
>> There is a sense right now that
everyone's buying time. It seems like
the Iranian regime is buying time to try
to survive, and it seems like some
Middle Eastern nations are buying time
to create alternative routes from the
Strait of Hormuz to export some of their
supplies. The UAE this morning saying
that they're planning to cut the
dependency dependency on the Strait of
Hormuz to zero, saying that even if the
Strait of Hormuz does reopen, nothing
will change that plan. How much is this
going to be an interim type deal for
months, maybe even years, trying to get
enough through while nations in the
region figure out workarounds?
>> Yeah, I think that's a very important
point. The Emiratis and the Saudis
certainly have options to build their
way out of the Strait of Hormuz. The
Qataris, the Kuwaitis, the Bahrainis,
uh absolutely do not have the ability to
do what the Saudis and the Emiratis do.
It's just by geography. So, uh there'll
be some countries that will be able to
um
uh uh
see this as an interim deal, and there
are others who will put pressure on it
in order to see through so that they can
navigate through the Strait of Hormuz.
Their economies are absolutely dependent
upon it. Um there is a big question
though whether we will get beyond this
60-day
uh period of the MOU. There's lots to be
worked out here, especially on the
nuclear front. That took the Obama
administration a couple of years. The
president is suggesting that this is
going to happen in 60 days. But overall,
I think you're quite right, Lisa. Um
the Strait of Hormuz is something that
is now seen as a problem for countries
in the region, and they're going to do
everything possible they can to uh to
ease their reliance on it.
>> 20 months. The JCPOA took 20 months,
Stephen. How long do you think this
could take?
>> Well, I think it can take quite some
time. Um unless the president um really
uh
goes back on his red lines. Um it it
there's every indication to suggest that
he will. And the US intelligence
community has warned the president that
their Iranians are unlikely to give up
their nuclear program.
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. And we will keep
parsing through that this morning. If we
take a look at oil prices, they are
essentially flat uh to where they were
yesterday. I'm looking at WTI right now,
$76.23.
If you take a look at the beginning of
the year, I mean, it's sort of
interesting to look at a benchmark to uh
in January when you saw oil prices
hovering around that $55 a barrel mark.
So, we have priced in nearly $20 of
premium. How much of that comes out? Do
we get back to where we were before? And
ultimately, how much of a risk premium,
although what Jeff Currie was talking
about, remains baked into these prices?
>> This MOU is not just about reopening the
Strait of Hormuz. According to the
document we've seen, point 10 says it
regarding the after the signing of this
MOU, the US Treasury is going to put
weight give Iran waivers be able to
export their crude. So, it's not just
that the Strait of Hormuz is reopening,
it's the fact that they're going to be
helping Iran export Iranian crude. So,
this is not the maximum pressure we've
seen under the Trump administration of
the past. And this is all to get the
deal across the finish line.
>> It is boosting at least expectations for
a potential easing in some of the
pressures on Kevin Warsh on inflationary
pressures ahead of the midterm
elections. It has a a real moment where
we are currently. Is the inflationary
pressure coming just from oil prices? Or
is it a broader-based [music] kind of
push-up? Coming up, Adam Posen of the
Peterson Institute predicting a year-end
rate hike from the Federal Reserve.
Plus, Hire on it with your morning
movers. SpaceX once again, fourth
straight day moving up about 3%
premarket trading.
>> [music]
>> Shooting for the moon.
If you can take a look at the broader
indexes, it really doesn't give you a
sense [music] of just how much action
there is under the surface. This
morning, we're looking for maybe
something of a reprieve from yesterday's
declines. Although, we've really faded a
lot of the earlier gains [music] at
least in the S&P futures down at
essentially now flat. Nasdaq, though,
regaining about half a percent. Flat in
the Russell 2000. Yesterday, [music] we
did see a decline led by big tech, but
most S&P constituents were higher on the
day. The KBW Banks Index was at a new
record at the end of close yesterday. At
the same time, you saw the socks, the
semiconductor Philadelphia Semiconductor
Index, plunging more than 4%. It just
shows you the incredible volatility
under the hood, where there [music] is
not volatility. With the move index
falling to one of the lowest levels of
the year with just a real sense of
steadiness is the bond market, and you
can see that this morning with a sense
that yes, yields have ground lower and
they continue to do so, albeit higher
than where they were to [music] start
the conflict. 10-year yields at 4.43%.
That 2-year yield 4.05%
[music] continuing its inflection lower,
and now are pricing in about an 80%
chance of a Fed rate hike for the
remainder of this year. Does given more
push back? Ultimately, that's a real
question. Yes, to dot or not to dot.
Yes, some of these other questions, does
he reframe the way that we look at
inflation, but [music] does he allow
this sort of hiking bias to remain in
markets even though we're still with an
easing bias at least on paper at the
Federal Reserve.
>> Right, and we spoke to Betsy Duke
yesterday, [music] a former Fed
governor, and she thinks actually the
statement's going to be completely
rewritten given this is a new Borsch era
at the Federal Reserve. But, he has, of
course, a difficult line to walk. He's
going to of course has going to have a
message [music] to the markets, but he
also has to have because he wants to
anchor inflation expectations. At the
same time, he's going to have a message
to an audience of one, that's the
President of the United States, who
obviously is giving him a little bit of
reprieve [music] when it comes to this
deal, and you see yields lower because
oil prices
going much lower based on the fact that
the President says the trade of moves
will be reopening on Friday.
>> [music]
>> I don't think anyone thinks we're
getting 20 million barrels a day
floating through on Friday, but this
direction is that they want this [music]
to get back to pre-conflict levels, even
so much as they're willing to give
waivers [music] to the regime once the
deal is signed.
>> Take a look at oil prices as Emmet was
just talking about. You can see them
just flicking higher a touch this
morning, but still [music] far below
where they have been. You can see WTI
$76.25.
Brent crude at $79 with the IEA seeing a
potential supply [music] glut coming as
soon as 2027. 3 hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers. Good
morning, Yahaira. Good morning, Yahaira.
>> Hi Lisa. We start with Space X heading
for a fourth straight session of gains
with a move of 3.3%
in the pre-market. The stock has surged
over 50% since it IPO'd less than a week
ago marking a remarkable start to its
life as a public company. The rally has
pushed Space X to a valuation bigger
than Amazon's and Microsoft is the next
mega cap that it could surpass if this
[music]
continues. Meanwhile, we are seeing a
rebound in the chip stocks with names
like Intel, Marvell, and AMD
>> [music]
>> all higher in the pre-market after a day
that saw the Philadelphia Semiconductor
Index fall [music] 5.7%.
Marvell was the biggest decliner amid
that pullback now getting a 3% [music]
boost. Intel also seeing a boost up 4%
after it announced
>> [music]
>> production of its most advanced chip yet
as
rumors continue to swirl about [music] a
future relationship with Apple and this
could be a step toward that. And we end
on Lionsgate. Those shares are falling
>> [music]
>> 5.9% in the pre-market after Netflix
came out and disputed reports that it
was interested in acquiring the studio.
The stock had rallied on that
speculation giving all that back,
>> [music]
>> but the idea was that Lionsgate could
emerge as a potential target as we
continue to see this wave of
consolidation across the media industry
after seeing Fox saying that it plans to
acquire Roku saying that earlier this
week. Lisa. [music]
>> Thank you so much, Yahaira. On our radar
this morning, the interim deal between
the US and Iran set to bring up major
financial relief to Tehran. The deal
will allow it to begin exporting oil
immediately and give it access to a $300
billion development program. Elsewhere,
SpaceX soaring out of the gate in its
first 3 days of trading, shares rallying
a mere 49% since its IPO, its valuation
topping $2.6 trillion, overtaking Amazon
as the world's fifth largest public
company. And top AI executives are
gathering alongside world leaders at the
G7 in France. CEOs from OpenAI,
Anthropic, and Google taking part in a
lunch today. As AI rises to the top of
the global agenda, the US and the move
on myth mythos 5 and fable 5 really
sending a shockwave across the world
saying, "Hold on a second. This is a
sovereign issue, not just potentially a
technological one."
>> And already there was concerns in Europe
about having too much dependence on US
AI companies. Now that's been absolutely
heightened given the fact you have these
export controls on these two models
coming out of Anthropic. At the same
time, did you see the semaphore report
about Commerce Secretary Howard Lotnick
and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent are
talking about and trying to figure out
how actually an equity stake or some
sort of nationalization of Anthropic
would look like. So Treasury Secretary
favored using equity in AI firms to seed
Trump accounts. The Commerce Secretary
Howard Lotnick's preference was that any
equity be directed to a type of
sovereign wealth fund. How Is this the
beginning of more we're going to see
when it comes to the AI space from this
administration?
>> There are two separate issues here that
are important issues. On one hand, it's
how does the broader public participate
in what seems like a sea change that
could potentially have malicious effects
on the labor market, could potentially
lead to some changes in composition
there. The second thing is national
security and questions about what this
AI can do with respect to eating into
some of the software holes and other
bugs that this software is able to
discover that other people really
haven't. And those are two separate
issues. A question of what this does to
national security, a question of what
this does to sort of popular support and
popular prosperity. And both of those
are at the top of mind this morning.
>> it's a national security issue, where
are they with the other AI models? Where
are they with OpenAI and xAI and some of
these other models we see that everyone
in the market says they are basically
competing at the same sort of levels.
Are we going to see export controls on
them? Or is this should be an anthropic
issue in itself? And we know that Dario
Amodei is having a lot of problems with
the DOD. The DOD has labeled Anthropic a
supply chain risk. So, this does feel a
little bit messy. And does it just get,
you know, figured out because the United
States government says we're taking a
stake in it?
>> Well, meanwhile, we're going to ask here
maybe from Kevin Warsh what he expects
to see from the AI outcropping counting
down to that Fed rate decision at 2:00
p.m. Chair Warsh's first press
conference at 2:30 p.m. Adam Posen of
the Peterson Institute writing, "The
statement will shift to a neutral bias.
They won't hike before the election.
They will hike in December 2026 and
January of 27." Adam joins us now for
more. Adam, always great to see you.
Thanks for being with us. So, what are
you expecting to hear today from Kevin
Warsh?
>> Thanks, Lisa, to you and Anne Marie for
having me back. I think Kevin is going
to do, I should say Chair Warsh is going
to do something that he's very good at,
which is say a lot of things that sound
deep about monetary policy while not
committing to anything. And I'm not
saying that to be dismissive. That kind
of worked for Greenspan and and Kevin
has said repeatedly that's a model he
has some sympathy for.
As you quoted me, I think they're going
to move the statement a tiny bit.
There's the one passage everybody
interprets for the bias, and I think
they're going to move it to a neutral
bias.
In contrast to what you cited a minute
ago, I don't see any way that they
rewrite the statement in this amount of
time. Everybody knew Kevin was going to
be chair. Everybody knew the meeting was
coming up. But you haven't been able for
the chair to have more than a bilateral
meeting with each member if at best. So,
I can't imagine they've rewritten the
statement.
>> Do you think that he will try to make a
bold statement by say not putting a dot
on the dot plot, not putting forward
some sort of projection, or do you think
that he's going to try to tow the line
and get gain popular support on the
FOMC?
>> I think both actually.
I think he is rightly, in my view, going
to downplay the dots. The dots now and
have been for some time like the
monetary aggregates were after the '80s.
They were something that nobody wanted
to take away even though they were not a
predictor indicator of much of anything.
So, I think it's entirely justified for
him to say, "I'm not putting up the dot.
We're going to change that."
But I also think that is not so bold. I
think that's a reasonable communications
improvement just as his pressures to
keep the cacophony of too many members
speaking at once will kick in.
But I don't think he's going to want to
rock the committee. I expect him again
to sort of dodge things and talk about
not the meaning not the word transitory,
but he has the gift in a sense of the
Iran deal
being that he has legitimate reason to
say let's wait and see. And the
committee will live with that.
>> Yeah, and he has legitimate reason to
say we can look through, at least right
now, the energy shock shock price. So,
you think they're going to hike this
year. How offsides is going to put Kevin
Warsh with the Trump administration?
>> And Marie, I actually think it's a
legitimate argument in theory to look
through, but I don't think it's right in
practice. As we've discussed before, as
Peter Orszag and I have written about,
there's a lot more inflation in the
pipeline. The we we're still seeing the
import prices go up. We're still seeing
the lagged effects of tariffs, and the
lags are because companies had to make
really hard decisions.
Um similarly with migration issues,
we're seeing a labor market that the Fed
has repeatedly underestimated for 2 plus
years now.
Um so
and we're seeing some erosion of
inflation expectations. So I I I don't I
think he will argue that they can look
through it. He will argue that
productivity growth is going to
disinflate, which for reasons you've
discussed with others, doesn't seem
imminent to me.
Um
but in the end, I I guess the rate hikes
are going to be A, inevitable, uh
Chair Warsh, I do think knows enough Fed
history and cares enough about being a
central banker that he will in the end
say, "I'd rather be Volcker or Greenspan
than Arthur Burns."
And B, that whatever President Trump
says, and he may say some awful things,
um it will not be seen as effective if
Trump tries to do use lawfare against a
second straight Fed chairman, as
particularly if inflation is rising.
>> Adam, what do you see as Jay Powell's
role going to be, given the fact that he
is sticking around?
>> I must admit that's the forecast I got
wrong and I'm surprised by. I am very
surprised former Chair Powell decided to
stick around. Um
and I think we have to take it at sort
of face value. There's something there
we don't see, which is
that the lawfare threat to him and the
Fed over the costs of the new building
make it criminal rather than political
oversight. And the ongoing
non-resolution of the, in my opinion
totally unjustified attack on uh
Governor Cook.
Jay obviously thinks there's more threat
there than we realized. I expect him to
stay totally mum on monetary policy
issues.
>> Adam, just real quick here. Do you
expect to hear anything on the balance
sheet today?
>> I expect some vague rhetoric at least on
the balance sheet and commit to
shrinking it, but with maybe the most
you would get is him saying we're going
to have a study group on it. I don't
expect any firm commitments of any kind.
>> Adam Posen, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. We'll all be
watching, I'm sure. Adam Posen there of
the Peterson Institute. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
Brief with Bonnie Quent. Bonnie.
>> Lisa, thank you. BMW slashing its
profitability forecast for the year due
to worsening demand in China and
negative sentiment from the war in the
Middle East. The German automaker also
expanding a cost-cutting program leading
to a one-time negative impact in the
second half.
Microsoft is considering using Chinese
company Deep Seek to power its Copilot
[music] co-work. Axios reporting the
company is looking for cheaper
alternatives to Anthropic and Open AI as
bills for compute skyrocket.
And Lisa spoke to RBC CEO Dave McKay
about the growing demand for artificial
intelligence.
>> The push for AI and capacity compute
capacity memory capacity is driving
a
insatiable appetite for all forms of
capital, debt, and and equity.
>> Okay, going on to say RBC has the
capacity to [music] meet leading lending
demand for the AI build-out. And that is
your Bloomberg Brief. Lisa.
>> Thank you so much. Right now, there is a
bilateral meeting happening between
President Trump and Egypt President
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi as they meet at the
sidelines of the G7 Summit. We want to
listen in.
>> of your prime person. And thank you very
much for allowing this opportunity
despite
all of the hard work and very busy
schedule that you have Mr. President.
Well, let me start by expressing big
congratulations for the breakthrough
that you have achieved Mr. President of
restoring peace to the Middle East.
Once once the deal was announced, there
has been great appreciation, but the
admiration has increased in this
marvelous management of such crisis at
the highest level.
Uh we're we're waiting for the deal to
be declared as a final deal as a final
deal so that we can react appropriately
and
state our positive
views and perspective of that
great deal from the presidency and on
behalf of the Egyptian people.
>> Up next, we'll be talking more about
this and we'll be tracking it throughout
the morning particularly given its
timing ahead of that MOU and the
announcement
>> [music]
>> of a potential signing of that deal on
Friday. Katie will hear both of those
commentaries plus questions. [music] Up
next, we'll also be looking at SpaceX.
It's SpaceX, so it's Elon Musk, so it's
also all of the things that Elon Musk is
doing.
>> They're totally overvalued, and it's so
obvious. When you have these great
winners, you have to let them run.
>> We're at the beginning of a new frontier
here.
>> Henry Schwartz of the Cboe joins us
next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Coming into it, another day of
volatility chop. We saw earlier futures
reflecting higher. They're essentially
flat on the S&P, although still [music]
maintaining about a tenth of a percent
gain. You're seeing a much bigger gain
in the tech space with Nasdaq leading
the charge once again. A little bit of a
Well, essentially stasis in the euro
dollar cross [music] 116. 10-year yield
is just a little bit lower, nudging
lower ahead of that FOMC meeting and
press conference of Fed Chair Kevin
Warsh later this morning I later this
this afternoon, rather. 10-year yield
4.43% [music]
in crude. Essentially flat here at
$76.28
with a real eye toward that MOU and what
will happen on Friday. Under
surveillance this morning, betting on
SpaceX.
>> People are playing a little bit of
hopscotch amongst the AI winners.
>> It's SpaceX, so it's Elon Musk, so it's
also all of the things that Elon Musk is
doing.
>> They're totally overvalued, and it's so
obvious. When you have these great
winners, you have to let them run.
>> This company kind of feels like a growth
company on steroids.
>> We're at the beginning of a new frontier
here.
>> Here's the latest. SpaceX shares rising
in the first three days of trading. It's
market cap topping that of Amazon,
making [music] it the world's fifth
largest stock. Options trading kicking
off with a record volume. Henry Schwartz
of Cboe writing, "Volatility skew
indicates a high degree of upside
interest, aka speculation, and is
sharply inverted with higher upside call
volatilities." Henry joins us now for
more. Henry, can you just give us a
sense, and welcome of what yesterday was
like given that it was the first day of
publicly listed options trading on
SpaceX?
>> Well, absolutely. I mean we
options market has been setting records
actually for six straight years. And I
think everybody knew SpaceX was going to
be big and you know we used an
accelerated listing process to get
options just three days after the IPO.
And so that first day activity we saw
1.77 million contracts trade.
It was it was
very interesting basically cuz we saw
very balanced flow between buyers and
sellers.
I mentioned that the volatility skew
like favors the upside. So basically it
implies a distribution where
investors are actually more worried
about a move to the upside than to the
downside. We call that kind of a
speculative setup but but we've actually
seen a trend this year about a third of
the listed stocks out there kind of have
this upside skew which is actually what
we saw during COVID as well. So it's not
kind of unheard of but it really does
tell you what investors are thinking.
How are people using options right now?
Are they using it to hedge positioning
or are they using it as retail investors
to just get in as early as they can and
better as you've been mentioning to that
upside volatility?
>> Well, it's it's a mix. So in terms of
the larger trades and we did see some
very big trades yesterday some 7,000 you
know contract trades which you know
equivalent to 700,000 shares. We saw
some big hedges. So we saw basically
people buying puts and selling calls and
when the when the volatility shape
favors the upside that collar strategy
is actually very
very attractive because in some cases I
looked actually last night at the end of
the day in the July options you could
buy the 180 put and sell the 235 call
for a credit. Okay? And with the stock
around 201. So basically you you're you
can actually in that case you keep about
18% of the upside and you get a 10%
downside hedge. That's the power of kind
of this upside skew. We don't see it
very often um and you almost never see
it in uh kind of at the index level.
>> How does this volume compare to what
you've seen in other mega IPOs prior?
>> So so I went back and the the best
example I could find was was Meta, which
was Facebook back in 2012. It did about
370,000 contracts. It was super highly
anticipated. Um that was around 2 and
1/2% of the market at the time and
actually the volume that we saw in
SpaceX yesterday was around 2 2.1% of
the total market. So it was actually
kind of comparable. Um you know, I think
though that you know, seeing that we you
know, that we're seeing basically put
buyers uh and also kind of uh
you know, people positioning, you know,
as you said, the other way to use
options is basically for upside exposure
and leverage. Uh we're seeing kind of
both of these things at the same time.
Uh you know, it's it was in the top
three yesterday and I think it's
probably going to stay in the top two or
three for the rest of the year.
>> How has some of the retail trading
changed the nature just more broadly of
markets, of institutional investors that
don't want to bet against them, of
retail investors that follow certain
popular names and want to get in and
different metrics than say traditional
Wall Street analysts?
>> Well, you know, the retail used to be
kind of a pretty small segment of the
listed options world, you know, maybe 10
15%. Um
that's really changed during COVID. So
now we you know, we can look at the
data, we can see basically coming out of
the big retail brokers, you know,
brokers like you know, Robinhood and
Schwab and Fidelity, they make up about
55% of the listed options market now,
which is really kind of amazing. Uh and
they also show a very um noticeable
preference for short-dated options. So
you know, you've heard about the zero
DTE phenomena, that's now been uh
running for you know, four years, so I I
wouldn't call it you know, it it's it's
now very well established. Uh in in um
SpaceX yesterday, uh about 58% of the
activity was in short-dated options that
that happened to expire this Thursday.
Now there's not um there's not even
weekly options yet in SpaceX, although I
believe we're going to see those very
soon. And then, uh you know, we've
recently rolled out Monday, Wednesday,
Friday options in some of the super
liquid names. It looks like SpaceX is
going to be a super liquid name, and so
I expect we'll see that as well. But,
retail loves to trade the shorter dated
options. They're they're lower priced
because they, you know, have a lot a
shorter kind of time span,
and they also really let, you know,
traders and investors position for
exactly what they're expecting
within the next, you know, sometimes
within the next hour.
>> Well, if someone has a better sense of
what's going to happen in the next hour,
you know, honestly, kudos to them. Henry
Schwartz, thank you so much for being
with us. Henry Schwartz of Cboe here on
SpaceX. We are getting some headlines
from President Trump at the G7 Summit in
his discussion with the Egypt President
El Sisi. Emery, talking about how some
of the reporting is false, particularly
the $300 fund for Iran.
>> Right. And if you look at the memorandum
of understanding, the text that we have,
you could see at point six, it says that
there's going to be $300 in financing
when it comes to the rehabilitation of
Iran. The President also says this Iran
MOU is not final. So, they're still
tweaking and working out some of these
details. Of course, once it's signed, we
should be able to see the text, and the
President's going to have to answer a
lot of questions. As we heard from
Stephen Cook, this doesn't reach all of
the US red lines.
>> Yeah. Well, there also are questions
about what is and isn't accurate.
President Trump saying that the US is
not investing 10 cents in Iran. They're
not having to fund they're not having a
fund to invest in Iran. Is this about
the US financing of it? Is it about the
access to financing by Iran? Clearly, it
comes as there's some pushback. I mean,
that's also part of this from within his
own party about what exactly was
conceded.
>> of pushback, and a lot of individuals
doesn't think it goes far enough. The US
made too many concessions, and obviously
something the President does not like to
hear cuz he got out of the agreement. A
lot of people are likening this to
[music] the JCPOA. We'll keep tracking
those headlines as they come out. We'll
also keep tracking SpaceX as well as the
rotational churn under the hood of this
market. Coming up next, Mike Wilson
[music] of Morgan Stanley seeing that
churn continuing. Bob McNally of Rapidan
Energy on what to expect for oil prices.
Former Boston Fed President Eric
Rosengren and Holly [music] Liss of BTG
Pactual. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> We continue to think third inning of
this AI revolution.
>> It's still a bull market.
>> We're expecting a a broadening out here.
>> Lower oil prices and lower inflation
expectations is going to fuel,
hopefully, more of a rotation.
>> The market [music] is sensing an economy
that's been very resilient.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance as we try to see a little
bit of a gain following yesterday's
declines. An incredibly volatile market
with so many different pistons firing.
On one hand, you have a question about
Kevin Kevin Warsh, the new Fed chair,
who is going to be stepping to the helm
of his first meeting at the at the head
later this afternoon. He will be giving
a press conference following the FOMC's
decision. Plus, you're potentially going
to get some sort of decision on Iran and
the United States. Right now, market
trying to shake it all off, looking
through the noise, trying to take a look
at positive gains in the tech-focused
sector once again. Yields just [music] a
touch lower ahead of that Fed meeting at
4.43%. Crude prices, yeah, basically
flat around here. Yes, they're up about
a half a percent, but this isn't exactly
anything to write home with given the
WTI trading at $76.36.
A key question here, Anne Marie, [music]
going into this meeting later this
afternoon and then on Friday is how much
do lower oil prices really take the
temperature off Fed Chair Kevin Warsh at
a time when ultimately he has to make
his stamp given that this is his first
speech.
>> just heard from Adam Posen. Even though
he thinks there's so much more inflation
built into the system right now, and he
cannot look through the inflationary
pressures, at the moment in the short
term, he can look [music] through the
energy price shock and say, "Well, look
where oil prices are today. They're not
a hundred. They're not a hundred and
twenty dollars a barrel." We heard from
Citigroup [music] yesterday. Andrew
Hollenhorst was on the program, and he
thinks this is definitely going to help
Kevin Warsh have a bit more of a dovish
tilt [music] today. And that's what
everyone wants to hear. They want to
hear how he speaks about the economy
right now, and where is his tilt since
obviously they're going [music] to keep
rates on hold.
>> Well, SpaceX also rallying as the market
seems wide open to IPOs of all types.
Mergers and acquisitions are on fire. A
sense that the financial markets are
looking beyond and are not exactly
looking for anything other than a Kevin
Warsh that isn't going to stop the
party. I mean, at what point does that
enter into the consideration for this
Federal Reserve?
>> Well, I think the Federal Reserve is
going to be looking at the financial
[music] markets and saying, "Wow,
they're off to the races." But of
course, they also have to deal [music]
with an economy where yet the labor
market is okay, but the lower end of the
K is still struggling. Somewhat
resilient, but after survey and polling,
you see people are saying that they are
having to dip into savings, and it's
becoming much harder to keep up with
price pressures.
>> Right now, we're looking at a market
that on the surface looks fairly calm.
Under the hood, keep watching [music]
some of the components. The KBW index,
the bank index hit a new record
yesterday. You saw more stocks gain than
lose even with declines on the benchmark
indexes. You saw the semiconductor index
plunge, [music] plummet more than five
percent yesterday. This morning, a bit
of a rebound, although how much does
this churn really indicate the path
forward? Coming up, Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley
>> [music]
>> saying the bull market remains intact.
Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy on
uncertainty surrounding the deal between
the US and Iran. And former Boston Fed
president Eric Rosengren as chair Kevin
Warsh presides over his first rate
decision. We begin this hour with stocks
rising, crude holding below $80 a
barrel, investors betting the US Iran
deal to reopen the Strait of Hormuz will
ease inflation concerns. Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley writing, "If there is a
stable resolution in the Middle East,
the bond market might walk back the Fed
hike it's currently pricing in. Our
conviction in the current bull market is
intact." Mike joins us now from Mike,
always great to see you. Thanks for
being here. Let's start there. This idea
of what a bull market means. Does it
mean stocks just go up into the right,
or does this mean that there is some
sort of cyclical undercurrent that shows
the economy that truly is strengthening?
>> Well, let's go back to why we're in a
bull market. It's all about the recovery
from the rolling recession from a year
ago. This operating leverage story, it's
an earnings-driven bull market, right?
So, last year we got the multiple
expansion in advance of, you know,
predicting that that was going to
happen. And as you recall going into
this year, there were a lot of kind of
boo-birds on the economy. People were
very nervous about earnings. And we were
we took the opposite view. I mean,
nominal GDP is booming. It's 7 to 8%.
And that's that's in place. So, what's
going on now is the multiples coming
down, okay, over the last 6 months, but
the earnings have been so good that the
market can still go up. So, the next
phase of the bull market at this stage
typically is multiples are flat to down,
earnings come through as as expected,
but that can drive the earnings the
stock market higher. And you get
rotations to the areas where that
earnings growth is under appreciated. We
think that yesterday's action is some
evidence that maybe we're going to have
that next rotation. We've already had
several rotations this year, and we
think that next rotation is in some of
the areas you mentioned, like regional
banks or consumer goods, which are
asymmetrically positively, you know, in
inspired by oil prices coming down.
>> This has been the argument that the
rally in the equity market is entirely
driven by fundamentals. And then SpaceX
happened. How much does that kind of
torpedo some of this thesis?
>> Well, look, I mean, you know, markets
are driven by fundamentals and animal
spirits at the same time. I mean, you
can't separate the two. They work in in
harmony. And so, yeah, I mean, is it a
little frothy right now in certain
areas? I mean, not necessarily the
in areas that there's a lot of leverage
in the system in in semiconductors,
okay, as an example. And that's coming
out now a little bit. That's something
we wrote about 2 weeks ago. To me,
that's a healthy development as long as
there's someplace to go to, right? And
so, if there's no place to go to, then
you can have a much more serious down a
downturn that can turn to something
that's more severe. We don't think
that's happening. We think this is a
normal transition. I want to go back to
once again to the beginning of the year
when people were were really, you know,
kind of pessimistic about growth.
All we've seen this year is one rotation
to the next from commodities, okay? What
happened this year? The the Fed started
printing money again, right? They
did the RMP. That went into gold and
silver stocks. Then it went into metals
and rare earths. Then it went into
energy stocks. Ended up in
semiconductors. What do all those have
in common? They're all commodities,
okay? So, we've had a commodity rally
basically bouncing around. And we think
now we're going to get that broadening
out story that was kind of going in
January and February. Then it was halted
by the the war in Iran and the oil price
spike and the repricing of the Fed. That
now is subsiding. And so, that we can
rotate back to some of these areas,
pro-cyclical areas where the earnings
are quite good, but they're
under-appreciated by the market.
>> What if we get a hawkish Kevin Warsh?
Could that hurt the rotation?
>> Well, define hawkish Kevin Warsh. I
mean, there's a couple ways to think
about that. I think one is on the rate
side, which I think is unlikely, okay?
The other's on the balance sheet. And we
don't really know yet how he's going to
want to position that. What I would say,
we wrote about this this past week, is
we already know what's happening, okay?
Which is that, you know, J. Powell left
him a nice little package, which is that
we're we're basically already seeing a
deceleration
in the RMP, okay? This is a I I I I've
spent the last 2 years painstakingly
trying to follow liquidity because that
has been the main driver of kind of the
animal spirits. And it was very positive
at the beginning of the year when they
restarted the RMP or asset purchases,
and you had Treasury buybacks as well,
and the SLR you know, increased some
capital from the banks. That now is
decelerating, right? You went up from 40
billion a month in R&P to 10 billion a
month. So, that's a deceleration that's
already in place. He's inheriting that.
Is he going to come out and say, "Hey,
we're going to re-increase that?"
Probably not. Is he going to say, "We're
going to kill it?" Probably not. But,
that deceleration is still in place. So,
I think we already know the answer to
the test, okay? We're having a
deceleration in liquidity in the moment,
and that to me, as we've been talking
about, is sort of the That's where you
can have this sort of summer chop and
summer correction. Like, in this
rotation yesterday, you said it already,
we're getting a rotation in a down tape.
Okay? That's what I expect. We're going
to get a down tape, but we're going to
get a rotation, and that's a signal that
we're seeing a leadership change.
>> What's the next risk on the horizon? The
market was able to get through tariffs.
Obviously, they're looking beyond now
the conflict in Iran. For the rest of
the year, is it just that potentially? I
mean, the president says if he's not
liking what he sees in Iran, he'll start
strikes again. Is that what potentially
could be disruptive?
>> Well, I mean, your your your viewers
probably won't like me saying this, but
the markets moved past the war. You
know, they moved past tariffs a year
ago. Remember in this time last year,
June of 2025,
everybody was still harping around
tariffs, and we had said a month before
like we've moved past tariffs. And so,
it's I feel it's the same thing. The
other thing we learned in this war,
which is amazing, okay? And I didn't
expect this, is we just learned how much
supply is out there, okay? I mean, like
if you had the situation, this is a
perfect storm. If you were an energy
bull at the beginning of the year, by
the way, energy stocks actually did
incredibly well, and then they peaked
literally the day of the of the attacks.
So, if you think about this this event,
it can only get to $125 an oil. And if
you inflation adjust that, that's so far
below where we were in the
Russia-Ukraine
uh war that began, you know, 5 years
ago. So, that to me is just a really
strong signal that there the the world
is very resilient in in terms of finding
energy supply. China's a big part of
that cuz they have all the storage. But,
to me, that's it's a very bearish It's a
very bearish view for oil going forward.
>> You're pointing to something that's
fascinating. Do you think that the trade
in terms of bullish on commodities is
ending? The idea that that is going to
be the outperforming sector in the
rally, which has worked at least
year-to-date.
>> Well, no. I think what I'm saying is
that there are multiple types of
commodities. And the reason why
commodities have done so well this year
at different times is because of the
liquidity picture, which was so robust.
We've written a lot about this last 2
weeks, which is we think that between
the Fed, the Treasury, and then the
deregulation, they've added over half a
trillion dollars of liquidity to the
system. So, the the whole rates argument
is a sideshow to me. It's just a
sideshow. I mean, it's been neutral. You
know, yes, today has the Fed been Has
the Fed been less dovish than expected
at the beginning of the year, including
me? Yes. Have they been way more dovish
on balance sheet? Absolutely. And that
has trumped, you know, the negativity.
Now, having said all that, multiples
have come down this year, okay? So,
multiples have come down because we're
later in the earning cycle. We're going
to get our peak rate of change in
earnings revisions, too. So, the
combination of peak rate of change on
earnings revisions, peak rate of change
on liquidity, tells me that we're in a
corrective mode right now.
>> Well, I guess another way to ask this is
do you expect that Fed Chair Kevin Warsh
to pull back some of this liquidity in
the face of these pockets of froth, as
you called them?
>> It's already happening.
It's already happened. In other words,
it the path has already been set. We're
having a deceleration, okay? A
deceleration on the rate of change of
liquidity being provided to the market.
That's what the market's picking up
right now. The question, which you may
or may not answer today, is what are you
going to do going forward? Are you going
to be
active using the balance sheet and and
and helping funding markets stabilize,
which is what the last Fed Chair did,
Jay Powell, which he's still still
there, by the way. So, they're probably
having a conversation about this. So,
you know, I think they will, ultimately.
Like, in other words, I think the Fed
and Treasury will provide more liquidity
if they need to.
But right now they don't need to because
bond volatility is totally under
control, funding markets are totally
good. We're seeing issuance of equities
and credit being absorbed. So they don't
need to do anything right now. Why spend
your bullets? But But and and so there's
a lesson in that. We kind of need the
markets to
pressure pressure them to provide more
liquidity. And the reason why we need
more liquidity is because the economy is
booming, okay? I mean we're growing 7 to
8% nominally. That absorbs a lot of
capital. Money supply is only growing
six. So that money's got to come from
somewhere.
>> Do you think that the market could still
hit your 8,000 target for the S&P by the
year end if you do see a rotation away
from some of the hyperscalers, away from
some of the semiconductors, given how
much they've rallied, given the
proportion of them into the entire
rally, and given how small the relative
economy has gotten in response?
>> Yes, because I don't expect these stocks
to correct more than whatever 5, 10%. I
mean they're going to correct and then
they're going to come back. Like I I
don't anticipate that this is the end of
the AI capex cycle or the end of these
stocks working. I'm just saying the
relative outperformance doesn't make
sense to me given the relative earnings
revisions in these other areas. And and
by the way, just a reminder, that
happened at the beginning of the year.
At the beginning of the year these
stocks were all underperforming. So, you
know, it's just the hot dot becomes all,
you know, the attention of the market
goes right there. And I like to try and
think six months in the future. Like I
try, you know, my job is to tell you
what's going to happen, not what is
happening, okay? That's harder. And so
people don't like to do that, but I try
to do that and I'm telling you that I
think we're going to get a rotation, but
it doesn't kill the bull market.
>> Mike Wilson, such great perspective.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley joining us
here in New York. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here's your Bloomberg Brief, Vani Quinn.
Vani.
>> Lisa, thank you. President Donald Trump
telling reporters at the G7 summit
reports of a $300 billion fund for Iran
are false and that the US [music] will
not invest, quote, 10 cents in the
country.
President saying the memorandum of
understanding reported by Bloomberg is
not yet final.
And he will share more [music] details
of the deal in a press conference today
at 10:30 Eastern.
Goldman Sachs marking an M&A record.
According to Dealogic, the bank has
advised on more than $1 trillion worth
of deals so far this year. That's the
fastest any bank [music] has ever
reached the milestone.
Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock
criticizing Elon Musk's trillionaire
[music] status.
>> I think news of the first trillionaire
in the world is not good news.
I think that's bad news.
Uh
it is it is a bright indication
of growing wealth inequality in this
country.
>> Warnock going on to say the tax system
is structured for people like [music]
Elon Musk. And that is your Bloomberg
brief.
>> Lisa, thank you so much, Bonnie. Up
next, pushing back on the details.
>> It's a memorandum of understanding, and
if I don't like it,
we'll go back to
shooting at them. We'll go right back to
dropping bombs right smack in the middle
of their head.
>> Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy Group
joins us next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
A lot on deck [music] today with the
first FOMC board meeting for Kevin Warsh
as Federal Reserve Chairman. We're going
to be getting that later today, and
right now markets are pretty calm. S&P
futures up about a tenth of a percent.
Uh real estate is in the euro dollar
cross at 1.16. 10-year yields reflecting
just a little bit lower, 4.43%, [music]
and crude are hovering around that $76
mark after plummeting from near $100 a
barrel not so long ago as people look to
Friday with that memorandum of
understanding being called into question
this morning. A question about how much
this truce and frankly this resolution
to the conflict can stick.
>> Well, we heard from the president in the
last hour speaking alongside the G7
the sidelines of the G7 and bilateral
meetings and he's basically saying he
doesn't like what he sees out of Iran
and the regime that he's willing to go
back [music] to strikes again. So, how
it's been described to me is that it's
the start of a very long process [music]
and there it's going to be a bit messy.
>> Yeah, under surveillance this morning
pushing back on the details.
>> No, it's not final. It's a memorandum of
understanding and if I don't like it
we'll go back to
shooting at them, dropping bombs on
their head. If I don't like it, if they
don't behave
we'll go right back to dropping bombs
right smack in the middle of their head.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump returning threats and pushing back
on the details of the memorandum of
understanding with Iran. Trump saying
the deal is not final and fighting could
continue. Bloomberg's Oliver Crook joins
us now from the G7 summit in Evian,
France. Ali, what's the sense there on
the ground in terms of what the
resolution is and what some of the
allies how they feel about it?
>> Well, I think that overall everyone is
going to be is very relieved to think
that you know there is at least a window
here for the end of the kinetic part of
this war, the potential reopening of the
Strait of Hormuz. The Europeans have put
their hands up again and to say listen
that we were very happy to be active in
the participating in the demining
process of the Strait of Hormuz. This is
something we understand from our sources
that the United States has been
receptive to. But of course they're only
willing to do that once you have a final
peace of agreement that they can feel is
sturdy and that they can feel is
reliable. And comments like that from
the president of the United States
potentially undermine some of that
faith. In terms of how the Europeans
feel more broadly about how sound this
architecture is, whether or not this is
better than the JCPOA and you'll
remember the Europeans were actually
involved intensely in the negotiations
on that. They're really coming back at
the end of this. If the United States
wants to use financial incentives, as it
seems the 14-point memorandum has really
really leaning on, the Europeans will
have to be a part of that conversation,
too. I think that here there are a ton
of questions from European allies about
how Trump is exactly seeing the
so-called new regime in Iran. He said
basically that the Iranians are on their
third regime now, that of course the
Iranians don't see it as a new regime.
And there's some real questions here, I
think, about how docile, how compliant,
how willing the Iranians are going to be
to comply with the wishes of the United
States just for some of those financial
rewards. Of course, the Iranians have
had sanctions on them for a number of
decades, and of course the supreme
leader, the new one, almost his entire
family has been wiped out by the
president of the United States. So, I
think a great deal of
a lot of sort of optimism on the front
end of this conversation and a lot of
skepticism and a lot of questions on the
back end.
>> Oliver Crook, thank you so much for
being with us. Ali there in Evian,
France, for the G7 meeting. Crude,
meanwhile, holding below $80 a barrel
following reports that the US-Iran deal
will reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Bob
McNally of Rapidan Energy Group writing,
"Even if Hormuz tanker traffic resumes
shortly, the risk of a summer or fall
oil spike has not completely
disappeared." Bob joins us now for more.
Bob, great to see you. Thank you for
being here. Let's just start with the
moves so far. Have you been surprised by
how much of the risk premium have been
taken out of oil markets since the
initial discussions of some sort of
resolution?
>> Hi, Lisa. Yes, Rapidan and I have been
much more successful at predicting this
crisis and analyzing it well before it
happened than we have how prices behave
since it started, really.
I think it's oversold. I think the
market continues to have a strongly
optimistic bias toward this crisis.
President Trump has validated that with
the what looks like an now assigned MOU.
We have to see the details. But yes, I
think I think I'm still surprised and I
think it's unwarranted and I think a lot
of this sell-off is going to retrace
when
those inventories keep drawing in the in
the coming weeks and months.
>> The view on markets from markets, Mike
Wilson of Morgan Stanley was just on and
he said what we've learned throughout
this conflict is just how well supplied
we actually are. That actually there's
plenty of oil slashing around. The
reserves in China in particular have
been incredibly robust, not to mention
the others. Why don't you believe that's
enough?
>> Well, that only explains how we skated
by the last few months.
What we have to wait for now as is when
the shortages start to appear in further
inventory declines.
On a seasonal basis, we are at 11-year
lows in US gasoline stocks, 29-year lows
in distillate stocks, and our SPR is at
43-year lows. And we're going to be soon
IEA is reporting we're hitting new
multi-year lows in commercial
inventories. Lisa, I see this almost as
a echo of 2022 when the market mispriced
the Russia disruption. Back then it was
pessimistic. Crude oil prices roofed in
the first half of the year despite two
SPR releases because the market believed
we were going to lose three or more
million barrels a day of Russian supply.
But in the second half of the year when
the data showed that didn't happen,
Russian supply was not disrupted. It was
reshuffled. Prices aligned. Now the
market has taken a very optimistic view
of the largest actual disruption. We've
lost three or four times what we thought
we were going to lose in 2022. So it
could be that all of us barrel counters
just got it wrong, but I think there's a
mispricing here. And yes, we were well
supplied as long as we destock and as
long as China as China went on a
crash diet and stopped importing crude
oil. It's like holding your breath
though. You can do that for a while, but
you can't do that on a sustainable
basis. Eventually, you got to exhale,
you got to eat, you got to drink. And
when Asia comes back to buying, as we
get in the high demand season here in
the summer, I think oil prices are going
to head up.
>> Bob, when it comes to the IEA, they put
out a report saying the impact on oil
demand will be much deeper this year,
but they're seeing a supply glut in
2027. Do you agree with that assessment?
>> Yeah, our base case has assumed that
Hormuz would start to reopen in July.
And in the
in the coming months, we will see Gulf
producers restore production, and we
will have surpluses even by the fourth
quarter, possibly. But those are
surpluses. I wouldn't call it a glut. We
are going to be refilling stocks,
commercial, strategic. China can turn on
a dime and start importing again 1.2
million barrels a day or 1.5 million
barrels a day. So, I don't think we have
a glut in the sense of massive
oversupply that OPEC plus will have to
cut under necessarily. I do think we'll
have surpluses if the Hormuz recovery
happens.
>> How many barrels do you see getting out
every day now?
>> Well, on a on an average basis, so on
any given day, it could be 7 million
barrels a day, depending on how many
VLCCs VLCCs are are are through. We
estimate two a little more million
barrels a day on a sustained basis is is
getting out now, but that number is
going to go up. The US has been
successful at getting more ships out,
and we're learning about that. So,
there's upward skew to that forecast. We
could probably be hitting 3 million
barrels a day on a sustained basis, say
over over a week or two.
>> If Iran were to put oil back in the
market, how much would that affect your
forecast in terms of just supply
increasing much beyond what you've
currently priced in?
>> No, that's aligned. We again, we think
that we've had the view 70% probability
that in July,
Hormuz would be open to freedom of
navigation, more or less. And so, Iran
will start reloading quickly. Uh they
haven't had to shut in too much yet. And
uh and we'll start to disgorge the
inventories. And then we'll see if the
Gulf producers, how quickly they decide
it's safe to restore their shut-in
production. So, Iran uh coming back uh
is fits with our forecast and uh and you
know, perfectly.
>> Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy, thank you
so much for being with us this morning.
Can you imagine, Emry, if that's part of
what ends up happening if the US and
European nations start restocking their
oil supplies with Iranian fuel?
>> That would be very much so unbelievable
under a Trump administration that was
obsessed with maximum pressure and
making sure that Iran
is under uh serious sanctions. I imagine
all that Iranian crude that was going to
go back to China.
>> Right.
>> Lion's share of the Iranian crude goes
to China now. And Bob makes a very good
point. What's going on right now is
China is not buying at the rate they
usually buy and import. Their thumb is
on the scale. If they start buying once
again, that happens this summer, you
could see an elevation in prices.
>> Yeah, a lot to be determined as we do
see oil prices stay below that $80 a
barrel with WTI trading just some $20
above where it was at the beginning of
the year. Still a significant premium,
whether that premium is too high or too
low is subject of real questions. Of
course, it also is a question for
inflation. How much is this the sole
reason for the inflationary spike that
we've seen in recent readings? [music]
Coming up, former Boston Fed President
Eric Rosengren as Chair Kevin Warsh
presides over his first rate decision.
You hire Annelise joining with SpaceX
rising once again on its way to a fourth
straight [music] day of gains. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> Yesterday was an interesting day in
markets where we
>> [music]
>> did see the overall indexes decline. And
yet, there were a number of rotations,
as we were just talking about with Mike
Wilson, that were really interesting in
particular with the KBW Banks Index that
hit a record high this morning. We are
rotating back into some of those high
flyers, the tech names with the NASDAQ
leading the charge up about a half a
percent and just a tenth of a percent
gain on both the S&P and the Russell
2000. Key question will be how much will
the Fed give a reprieve [music] to
broader economically sensitive stocks.
Today we do get of course Fed Chair
[music] Kevin Warsh's first meeting rate
decision at the helm of the Central
Bank. A real question here with twos,
tens, and 30s inflecting just a little
bit lower, still far above where it was
before the conflict started on February
[music] 28th with Iran, the US, and
Israel. Right now we're looking at
10-year yields at 4.43% not doing much
at the front end, essentially flat at
4.05%
that 30-year yield still below 5%, 4.9%
a lot having to do with the oil space
right now. That quiet that you're seeing
despite some of the questions around
what's in the MOU that idea that we're
seeing Brent [music] crude at $79.34
given where it has been over the past
couple of months is truly remarkable.
[music]
>> It is remarkable seeing Brent below $80
a barrel given the fact that at the
moment the MOU is not even signed and
the president has said it's not [music]
even final yet. So the Strait of Hormuz
is essentially still shut with Bob
McNally saying two to three million
barrels a day on average that [music] is
only getting out. And we are living in
the basically on these buffer zones when
it comes to inventories. Yet the market
certainly [music] trusts in Trump in the
sense that this is the direction of
travel and that he wants to see the oil
flowing once [music] again. And that is
why you have individuals like city
saying we see a dovish Kevin Warsh
showing up today and they still see
three rate cuts this year. [music]
>> Markets have moved on in large part
because they've got new shiny objects to
focus on like space, like what we could
see with new programming and software
development coming from artificial
intelligence. Lots of specific names two
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Yuhaira
O'Neill. Yuhaira.
>> Hi Lisa. Well, we start there with none
other than SpaceX [music] heading for a
fourth straight session of gains with
shares up 2% in the premarket. The stock
has [music] surged over 50% since it
IPO'd less than a week ago pushing it
past Amazon when it comes to market
[music] value. And the gains have been
so dramatic that apparently Elon Musk is
already nearly a third [music] of the
way to a second trillion dollars. That's
according to our Bloomberg Billionaires
Index which may need [music] to be
renamed or maybe there's a separate
category for Musk. Meanwhile, we are
seeing a rebound in the chip sector with
names like AMD and Intel moving higher
in the premarket after a day that saw
the Philadelphia Semiconductor [music]
Index close down Marvell was the biggest
decliner
amid that pullback. Meanwhile, we are
[music] seeing Intel shares rise 3%
after they announced that [music] it is
starting production on its most advanced
chip yet as reports continue to swirl
about a potential future deal with Apple
and that may be a step toward [music]
that. And we end on CarMax. Those shares
also
they are now falling 1 and 1/2%
>> [music]
>> in the premarket. It just reported
earnings and falling despite the used
car retailer reporting sales and revenue
[music] that did top expectations though
profit did come in below expectations so
the market may be reacting to that but
it is a sign that consumers are still
continuing to look for value when it
comes to those big ticket purchases.
Lisa.
>> Thank you so much Yuhaira. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
denying reports that the deal with Iran
includes a $300 billion investment fund.
[music] Trump adding that fighting could
even continue.
>> It's a memorandum of understanding and
if I don't like it,
we'll go back to
shooting at them. We'll go right back to
dropping bombs right smack in the middle
of their head.
>> President Trump is expected to offer
more details from the G7 at a 10:30
Eastern press conference. Meanwhile,
SpaceX agreeing to take over software
startup cursor in a $60 billion deal
announced yesterday. The move cementing
key parts of Elon Musk's efforts to
catch up with rivals and coding tools.
The deal is expected to close in the
third quarter and kind of amazing that
it was a deal so quickly after the IPO.
>> Meanwhile, US Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnick out with a warning for Anthropic
telling the mythos maker it will need to
government permission to give foreign
nationals access to its most advanced AI
models threatening civil and criminal
penalties if the firm fails to comply.
This is Anthropic representatives head
to DC with mythos 5 and fable 5 now
withdrawn due to compliance issues.
>> Right, in this letter from the commerce
secretary ordering them not to give any
of these models to foreign nationals or
there is going to be serious issues when
it comes to going past what these export
controls and licenses require. What's
interesting is Dario Moday is also with
the president at the G7 at the same
time. I was with the president two weeks
ago and he was talking about potentially
there's going to be some sort of maybe
equity stake public private partnership
when it comes to these AI companies.
Semaphore is saying that there's a
difference of opinion between Treasury
Secretary and the Commerce Secretary but
mostly that the US government wants to
make money off these companies
essentially some sort of
nationalization.
>> Yeah, especially to get some extra
funding to fuel different programs for
assistance and for transition. It's
notable when you talk to corporate CEOs
who have been exposed to mythos how
alarmed they actually are about the
potential to find any holes in their
security, any holes and ability to get
in and manipulate things. You just
wonder about the timeline with the
development of some of these AI tools is
moving faster than a lot of companies
ability to really adapt and protect
themselves from it.
>> And also to regulate it. Remember, this
administration was going to have a very
soft touch when it comes to AI
regulation, and then all of a sudden
they're actually blocking these models
getting into the hands of foreign
nationals. Is that going to be the
direction of travel they take?
>> And this is going to have a huge
economic implication in part because of
what it does to employment. Kevin Warsh
is going to have to speak about that
eventually. Whether he does today is a
question as he steps into his first
opportunity to shape expectations as a
Fed chair later this afternoon. Former
Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren
expecting no forward guidance from
Warsh's statement writing, "The new
chair is likely to want to emphasize at
this meeting a new less transparent
communication style." Eric joins us now
for more. Eric, great to see you. Thank
you for being with us. Can we take
anything from Kevin Warsh's first
appearance on the board of the FOMC back
in 2006 to 2011
that we can pull forward to today as
guidance over how he will really preside
over the Central Bank?
>> Well, I think he's made
pretty clear that he thinks that uh
previous FOMCs have over communicated
and that it's been a bit confusing with
a number of voices sometimes giving
discordant opinions. So, I think he's
going to try to slow down the amount of
uh speeches made by members. He's
probably going to redraft the statement
so that uh it's very factual and doesn't
provide any forward guidance. And uh
this is normally a meeting where the
summary of economic project projections
is provided, which includes a dot plot
that gives the participants'
expectations of where interest rates
will go. Uh it will be interesting how
he handles if they go through with that.
It'll be interesting to see how he
handles that because even if there's no
forward guidance in the statement, if
they put the dot plot out, it's going to
give some indication that many members
of the FOMC think the next move ought to
be up, not down.
>> You said if they put the dot plot out,
do you think that there's a chance that
they won't?
>> I mean, at the first meeting, he said
there's going to be a regime change.
Uh I expect this meeting is mostly going
to be about communications,
communications within the committee, uh
communications about the statement,
communications with the press
conference. And at a very minimum, I
think he's probably going to seek to
uh deemphasize the summary of economic
projections and the dot plot with the
hope that eventually uh it goes away,
but
uh when you talk about regime change,
sometimes it is fairly quick. So, it
will be interesting to see what happens
at the press conference and what
actually is released publicly.
>> Eric, you also said he's going to try to
slow down the number of speeches. How
does he do that while also making sure
he's gaining consensus amongst his new
colleagues?
>> I mean, I think it is a challenge, uh
particularly given uh the precedent that
uh many presidents probably have quite a
lot of speeches that they've already
agreed to give, as well as some of the
governors.
Um but, I think he's just going to
emphasize that he doesn't want to see
forward guidance in any of the speeches
and that uh the
the forward guidance has often been
misleading and misdirected the market,
and he thinks that both in statements
and in speeches
uh people should stick to the facts in
explaining uh the policy that was just
taken.
>> Well, is Warsh himself also going to
speak less? And if that's the case, and
Jonathan Ferro has brought up this point
a lot, doesn't he just outsource how
he's thinking to other members of the
committee? And then they will define
him?
>> I mean, he's indicated he thinks that
the chair, as well as everybody, should
speak less.
Uh we'll see how difficult that is,
particularly if they're expecting to
make significant changes. But, I think
if he does that, it's going to be in the
context of the entire committee speaking
less frequently and less
with less forward guidance than they
have in the past.
>> It seems like a a lot of people have
moved past forward guidance anyway, at
least in markets. They've been looking
at other metrics in terms of inflation,
in terms of understanding exactly how
tight the labor market is. Do you expect
any guidance for at least how the Fed
measures inflation given the criticisms
in the past that Fed chair Kevin Warsh
has had about the exact metric used?
>> The chair may talk about that in his
comments.
Um,
usually those kind of discussions take
several meetings.
Uh, the staff usually provides uh,
briefings and uh, peop- there are a lot
of economists that would work on the
issue of
uh, what are the best measures of
inflation, what's the best way to
forecast future inflation. So, I would
be surprised if that came out at this
meeting. I think that probably will take
several meetings before uh, he would
introduce anything different there.
>> Do you think it's bad for the Fed to
communicate less?
>> It wouldn't be my first choice.
>> Why?
>> that during a
yeah, during a period of regime change,
if there really is regime change,
uh, then uh, you need to explain what
you're doing and why you're doing it,
particularly if it's different than what
uh, you know, the previous two or three
chairs have been doing.
>> Do you think that the interpretation
will be some sort of overly dovish
position? Do you think the implication
will be sort of political or do you
think that the implication will just be
more uncertainty, potentially having the
opposite effect, more volatility, and
leading to tighter financial conditions?
>> I mean, Kevin has in the past talked
about uh, wanting to go back to the day
where there's a little more mystique to
monetary policy and and not being quite
as transparent in general. I I the
challenge with that is both the public
and investors are now very well informed
about what the Fed does and how the Fed
affects the economy. So, I don't think
we can go back to where we were under
Greenspan or Paul Volcker.
Um and I think that Kevin's thinking may
evolve on this over time.
>> Former Boston Fed President Eric
Rosengren, thank you so much for your
thoughts uh this morning ahead of that
uh central bank meeting and rate
decision. And of course, Kevin Warsh's
first time as Fed chair on the podium. A
really interesting note from Torsten
Slok just moments ago coming out and
saying that there are more D-T bills,
more dependence on the Fed. Talking
about how the structure of financing of
the country has really put that much
more control in the Fed's hand about
what our interest rates are given that
85% of gross Treasury issuance will be
in T-bills, which is the most affected
by the Fed's rate.
>> Which is why the market wants to hear
from the Fed, which is why this might be
challenging for Kevin Warsh if he comes
in and tries to dial that down,
especially given the fact that the
president's appointment of Stephen
Myron, who's no longer there, of course,
but Stephen Myron injected this new
fresh approach where everyone was out
speaking more and everyone was more
transparent in how they felt. Now is
Kevin Warsh trying to put that genie
back in the bottle?
>> Well, we will see later this afternoon
if he gives a speech and if he answers
some of those questions that I'm sure
will be lined up in the press
conference. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's a
Bloomberg brief with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie.
>> Lisa, thank you. A small passenger plane
crashing near a Texas highway last
night. [music] According to the Laredo
Police Department, no one on the highway
was injured during the crash. It's
currently unclear how many people were
on board and their condition.
>> Apple is planning to launch
camera-equipped AirPods late next year
as [music] part of a flurry of new
releases. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the company plans to unveil
the device around the same time as a
next-generation [music] foldable phone
and a fresh iPhone model on the market's
20th anniversary.
>> Ferrari is looking for ways to get
people who buy its a divisive EV model.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
company is delivering a message across
its collector [music] network that
purchasing a Lute is a stepping stone to
other exclusive models. And that is your
Bloomberg [music] brief, Lisa.
>> Thank uh thank you so much, Vanya. I
think that John is out buying a a Lute.
[laughter]
I a Lute. I I highly doubt it. But
actually this is what Hermes does. You
got to like buy a bunch of stuff to then
get [music] on the list to try to get a
Kelly or a Birkin. And that's what
Ferrari seems to be doing. It makes me
think do people actually want this car
or they want a classic amazing
incredible Ferrari and they have no
choice but [music] to buy this Lute
first to get on those lists.
>> If you want the privilege of buying a $2
million
Ferrari, you first have to buy just a
mere $650 million
$50,000 [music]
car. Up next, Kevin Warsh stepping up to
the plate.
>> Kevin Warsh knows what he's doing. If he
wants any changes, basically he needs to
have the other 11 members on the FOMC,
the voting members, on board.
>> Warsh will do is say there's tremendous
uncertainty. It would actually be good
for the Fed to have that flexibility
here.
>> Holly Liss of BTG [music] Pactual joins
us next to talk about exactly what to
expect later today. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Seeing a bit little bit of a lift. This
seems like a waiting pattern ahead of a
couple of key events this morning,
whether it's the Fed meeting later
today, Kevin Warsh's first time at the
podium giving a press conference
following the rate decision as Federal
Reserve Chairman. Of course, we also
have the MOU on Friday, the potential
for some sort of deal between the US
[music]
and Iran getting inked. Put this all
together, markets are flat. They don't
know where to go with this. S&P futures
essentially unchanged. You've got the
euro-dollar essentially unchanged at
116. You've got 10-year yields
unchanged. You've got crude and sugar
maybe a little bit higher, but still
incredibly low compared to where they've
been over the past 3 months, $76.70.
After rising beyond $100 a barrel in
just the past a couple months given
[music] the fact that there has been a
war going on in the Middle East that has
stalled out most imports and exports of
oil through the Strait of Hormuz.
[music] Under surveillance this morning,
someone's going to have to put this all
together. Kevin Warsh stepping up to the
plate.
>> Kevin Warsh knows what he's doing. If he
wants any changes, basically he needs to
have the other 11 members on the FOMC,
the voting members, on board. Too high
inflation, strong labor market, that
argues of course for the Fed needs to
move towards a more hawkish stance.
>> Warsh will [music] do is say, "There's
tremendous uncertainty. It would
actually be good for the Fed to have
that flexibility here."
>> Here's the latest. Investors looking for
new messaging from Fed Chair Kevin Warsh
today. Markets expecting policy makers
to hold rates steady as inflation picks
up. Holly Liss of PT BTG Pactual
writing, "There is always room for a
surprise and more so given the new Fed
Chair and rapid decline in crude." Holly
joins us now for more. Holly, good to
see you. Want to start with a question
of what the bigger risk to markets is. A
potential dovish tone from Kevin Warsh
or a potential hawkish tone from Kevin
Warsh?
>> Well, at BTG we feel that the risk is
more towards the hawkish side. Nobody's
really looking for any change to the
overnight target rate. There is a lot of
speculation that they're going to tweak
the statement, that the dot plot will
modestly change, and that the economic
projections will also be tweaked a bit.
The risk is that they come out more
hawkish if they eliminate that
additional statement where they bias
towards easing. So, if they take that
out, that is more on the hawkish side.
However, if you start seeing Chairman
Warsh eliminate his dot or even the dot
plot entirely, that would clearly be
viewed as more hawkish. So, I think
that's where the risk is. Now, let me
take the other side of the coin. Of
course, with with the crude oil prices
coming down recently, that has to fit
into the scenarios they're going to be
talking about as well as inflation, and
that could trigger more of a dovish
statement. So, it does wait and see.
We'll have to see how it goes from
there, but I think right now people are
leaning more towards the hawkish side.
>> Ollie, you said if they didn't put out a
dot plot or if he withdrew his
particular dot, that would be viewed by
the markets as hawkish, potentially
leading to tighter financial conditions.
Can you explain how less communication
is viewed as potentially hawkish at a
time where there is a suspicion
that Fed Chair Kevin Warsh is going to
automatically lean to the dovish given
some of his commentary leading up to his
confirmation?
>> Well, I think there are still some who
recall when he was here in in the in the
chair not in the chair position, but
with the Federal Reserve in 2006 to 11,
he was leaning more towards the hawkish
side. So, there are still some remnants
of that that people are looking at.
Plus, the market the Fed has become so
transparent with the dot plot, with the
SEP, with all of the conversations and
meetings that they give, that the
transparency is viewed as more open, and
we will know what they are doing. If
they start curtailing that, especially
if Chair Warsh wants to pull back on
that communication, they may be thinking
something else is going on and that he
is not leaning towards the easing side
and therefore it could be hawkish. Now
that said, with crude oil prices
dropping, clearly there could be room
for some flexibility towards the easing
side.
>> Yeah, hi. That's what I wanted to pick
up on. This dropping crude we've seen,
how much really is this a gift to Kevin
Warsh as he as he meets members of the
press and starts talking about the
outlook for inflation?
>> I think many of us will take gifts where
we can. So, it certainly gives them some
breathing room and not just Warsh, but
really the entire committee, those that
have been a little bit more concerned
about inflation. Now, just because crude
is down and BTG's technical models, our
model says the crude could continue to
fall. We have
an outlook for potential to $72 to $69 a
barrel, so that would be another 7 to
10% from where they settled yesterday.
So, that does give them some breathing
room. It is a gift for him. We will need
to see that filter through into other
prices, inflation expectations, and the
inflation numbers. Now, if we're going
to speak about inflation numbers, he has
a favored number, the trimmed mean
inflation number, which is lower than
the other numbers and statistics that
the market tends to look at, CPI, PPI,
PCE. So, he could clearly be leaning
towards that number and the crude coming
down and being a little bit less
inflationary and filtering through to
the easing side.
>> Is there any chance they don't remove
the easing bias?
>> So, as we talked about at the start of
this, there's always room for a
surprise. While everybody, I shouldn't
say everybody, there's always risk.
While most people are looking for the
statement to be modestly changed,
there's always the chance that it could
be drastically different. This is his
first meeting. He may want to establish
his credentials and and his footprint on
the meeting and on the committee. And
let's not forget, you also have former
Fed chair Powell in the meeting as a
governor.
It has been a long time since that
happened. Not that it can't happen, but
it has. And so he So Chair Warsh may
want to establish his own sort of
outlook and regime change and things
like that given that a former Fed chair
is in there also as a voting member.
>> Alyssa of BTIG Pactwell, thank you so
much for being with us this morning. Can
you imagine a lunch room at the Federal
Reserve FOMC
given the connection or lack thereof
between Kevin Warsh and Jerome Powell?
Will they sit next to each other? Will
they sit far away from each other? Will
Jerome Powell be wearing a hat and
sunglasses to keep a low profile?
>> Yeah, he said he's going to keep a low
profile then he went out and made a
major speech and didn't keep a low
profile. I think all people are
wondering actually when he is going to
leave the board. I guess maybe
potentially when this Lisa Cook issue is
wrapped up with the Supreme Court. But
you have to think it's a bit of an
awkward dynamic for Kevin Warsh to come
in given this is his second round at the
Fed. Last time he was a hawk and based
off his interviews and his hearing in
Congress when he was auditioning to
become the Fed chair, um he obviously
had a change of heart.
>> There is a lot of institutional support
for Kevin Warsh. He is a known entity.
He has been in the field for a while. He
was respected. He was endorsed by a lot
of people who have been both in the Fed
and outside of the Fed. Question a lot
of people have is typically whenever
there is a new chair, there are
accidents that happen. There are
communication errors, whether it's here
to close the spreads for the ECB or
whether it's just potentially signaling
a little bit of the wrong direction.
Is that the potential risk of just sort
of a communication error amid this
change to potentially reshape the way
that the FOMC communicates?
>> And does the market, specifically the
bond market, actually push back and test
him? You know, does he have a moment
where I'm not here to put a dot on the
plot potentially? And then I think you
and Jonathan have talked about this a
lot. What happens then if you outsource
your views to other members of the
committee? How hard is it going to
really be for him to go around and say,
"Sorry, you can't give those speeches."
>> Well, will there be an answer and
question period of time after the press
[music] conference? Stay tuned. Coming
up, and we're not going to answer that
question, but we will talk about what to
expect. Sarah Malik of Nuveen, Dom Rizzo
of Rowe Price with tech stocks soaring,
Jonathan Pingle of UBS, and Blake Gwinn
of RBC Capital Markets on a day of a bit
more optimism than yesterday. Look at
that, the sun coming out. This is
Bloomberg.
>> Warsh will say, [music] "There's
tremendous uncertainty."
>> I expect his tone will be a little bit
more dovish.
>> Too high inflation, strong labor market,
that argues, of course, for the Fed
needs to move towards a more hawkish
stance.
>> The Fed's primary job is controlling
inflation.
>> It's a long shot to call for a rate cut
this year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. Stocks
[music] rising ahead of Chair Kevin
Warsh's first rate decision at the top
of the central bank. All eyes on how
much he seeks to [music] reshape the
institution. Traders also focusing on
the US consumer retail sales coming out
in about 30 minutes time. And SpaceX
just keeps on rallying, boosting its
valuation beyond Amazon, maybe to the
stars. Question is, how does it Chair
Warsh reconcile well, that market
enthusiasm with labor market concerns
given some potential wobbles that we've
seen under the hood with the consumer.
>> Well, potentially under the hood with
the consumer, how many times have people
come on this program and said, "Oh, the
consumer's [music] relying right now on
the bigger than expected tax refunds."
We heard that in December on Christmas,
people saying they're spending what they
prepared to get. And it's higher
electricity bills in January. And then,
of course, the past few months it's been
higher oil prices, higher [music]
gasoline prices. But today, you look
across the continental United States, $4
a gallon. When it comes to energy,
prices are moving in the right direction
at a time for him to come out and start
his Kevin Warsh era.
>> That said, this is why retail sales will
be interesting, [music] and we do get
that at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time in just
about 29 minutes. Uh a lot of people
have been looking at credit card data.
Citigroup put this out yesterday, saying
that the card data increased in the
month of May, led not necessarily even
by gasoline purchases or related things,
but automotive retail, yes, so that
might be a little more related, and home
furnishing. They talk about how overall
they expect a 0.9% [music]
month-over-month increase, which is
beyond the 0.6 expected by the median.
You put this out, and you start
wondering how broad-based is the
inflation, given [music] what we're
seeing in markets, given what we're
seeing with the employment market, and
given how we're measuring things. Again,
another key question for Kevin Warsh.
>> It's a good good question [music] to
note, too, how we're measuring things,
cuz surveys and polls, you continuously
see a very frustrated consumer, [music]
especially on the lower end of the
income spectrum. We heard from David
Tepper just 2 days ago, and what did he
say [music] in his in his report? Sunny
days, consumer spending remained
remarkably resilient in May, strongest
[music] growth in nearly 4 years. So,
consumers might be frustrated, and they
are saying this in surveys and polls,
and they are a little bit cranky with
higher prices, but they're still going
out and they're still spending.
>> They're not cranky if they bought into
the SpaceX IPO, or potentially
if they're trading at some of the
derivatives that have come to the fore,
options starting to trade yesterday.
We're going to parse through all of that
right now, a pretty muted market. You
are seeing a little bit of a lift
>> [music]
>> in equities led by the tech trade, which
led the way down yesterday, essentially
flat on the S&P. [music] Eurodollar
essentially staying around that 116
mark. Yields had started the session a
little lower, now marginally creeping
higher, 4.44% [music]
on the 10-year. Crude essentially
staying in that $76 range, although
inflecting a little higher with the MOU
in question,
>> [music]
>> given some of the pushback that we heard
from the president this morning. Again,
will it last? Will this be something
sustainable, or has the market just
completely moved on because oil has
gotten through, and ultimately
>> [music]
>> they are not going to get thrown around
by headlines.
>> Well, Mike Wilson said the market has
completely moved forward, and this is in
the rearview mirror. The issue, of
course, is going to be that we could see
fits and starts when it comes to dealing
with Iran. We already saw that [music]
during the most problematic and height
of the kinetic war with Iran. Right now,
what you can potentially see more oil
getting [music] out, but the president
said himself he doesn't like what he's
seeing in terms of the regime, he will
start strikes again. And if you read
[music] the memorandum of understanding,
the draft text we have, it talks about
nuclear discussions in the future, but
the other two red lines the president of
the United States, [music] Trump, has
had for years is money to proxies and
their ballistic missile program, and
this MOU doesn't address either.
>> Well, coming up we'll talk about how
this leads to the market. Sarah Malik of
Nuveen with stocks navigating that wave
of volatility, particularly when it
comes to semiconductors. Don Rizzio of
T. Rowe Price as SpaceX overtakes Amazon
as the world's fifth largest company,
and Jonathan Pingle of UBS looking ahead
to Fed Chair Kevin Warsh's first rate
decision. We begin this hour with stocks
steady as investors countdown to the
Federal Reserve. Sarah Malik of Nuveen
writing, "Expect the market to broaden
and buy the bit dip behavior to
continue." Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, good morning.
>> Welcome. I want to start with how much
the market is really trained to the Fed,
how much the market's really trained to
oil, or whether this is all about deals,
all about AI, and all about some of the
enthusiasm for new technology.
>> That's an interesting question. The
answer is all of the above, but really
what grabbed the headlines this week was
the Middle East ceasefire. And what that
cleared the way for was for the market
to broaden. We see the market broadening
for two reasons. First of all, inflation
should moderate as oil prices decline
and tariff refunds occur. And
secondarily, the economy is very strong.
We've seen strong manufacturing data, a
continuing strong labor market, and the
consumer continues to spend. We should
see a decent retail sales number later
today. So, we prefer at this point
global equities, European equities, and
cyclicals over growth stocks. And we
think that people will continue to buy
the dip as we saw after yesterday. When
we see these little pauses in this
rally, we tend to see people stepping in
buying the dip on the market. And we
think it'll be a broader rally from here
going forward.
>> This is an interesting point and
something that Mike Wilson was making
earlier, that this is unleashing the
broadening trade that we saw earlier
this year, like the equal weight, the
international trade. Is that also coming
with potentially a fading in the tech
sector, or is it a yes and type of
story?
>> We came into this year bullish on
technology stocks, and I always say
don't bet against the US or bet against
the US or technology stocks. But, I
think there will be some give. We see
this huge rally in semiconductors, just
even double digits in the last number of
days. I think that's not going to
continue. Some of that is going to be a
source of funds for buying the rest of
the market. But, I don't think that
means that tech is going to be
completely left behind. It'll just be a
broader rally going forward, driven by
this continued strong economy, and also
by inflation that is now moderating, but
it's not going to go back to what the
Fed has stated was their target, which
is 2% because before the war, inflation
was still running in about a 2 to 3%
range.
>> Given the fact that you said that really
it is the end of the war in the Middle
East that triggered this initial
broadening out that we've seen over the
past couple of weeks. How much do you
expect this to ultimately be the arbiter
of how far it can go, how low oil prices
can go, how dovish the Fed becomes?
>> Earnings growth tend to move the market
higher, and if you remove the war from
the equation and the market has
generally moved on from the war and
assumed that it will end in a reasonable
period of time. Earnings growth for 2026
should be over 20% when all is said and
done. We saw better than that for the
first quarter. Earnings growth can drive
this market higher without necessary
multiple expansion. Multiples can
actually
decline a bit while earnings continue to
grow and that's why we've been we're
bullish on the market and think it has
upsides from here because of that
earnings growth number north of 20%.
>> Building on Lisa's point, if the
market's no longer worried about the war
in Iran, what's the greatest risk right
now?
>> I think today's risk is going to be the
Fed meeting. You know, Warsh is going to
be walking a fine line between being
overly dovish and overly hawkish. He
needs to make sure that you know, what
he communicates is something that the
bond market believes in. He's balancing
the dual risks between inflation, which
is very strong, and the economy that is
strong. So, we forecast no rate cuts for
the rest of this year. Next year though,
if the economy does weaken a bit, you
may be able to squeak one rate cut by.
But, you know, hikes are also on the
table in 2027 because it depends on the
strength of the economy and inflation,
as I said before, was not near the Fed's
target before the war started. So, even
though we're going to finally move past
the bump in inflation due to the war, we
still have to deal with the chronic
ingrained inflation in the economy. I'll
also mention payrolls. They've been so
strong recently. I'm worried about wage
inflation picking up again because
supply of jobs has been increasing.
Payrolls have been strong and wage
inflation may start to pick up because
of that.
>> Well, that's why a lot of people are
also concerned about potentially the Fed
having to hike and the market is still
seeing a hike even though they retraced
some of those moves because of what we
saw with the president's MOU in regards
to Iran. And but you're thinking
potentially it's going to be a cut in
2027. Does it feel
odd to be at odds with where the
market's pricing?
>> The market it could be overly hawkish at
this point. I agree with no cuts in 2026
given the strength of the economy and
the issues around inflation. 2027 is
still a a way away. By that point,
inflation could be moderating closer to
target. It was trending in the right
direction before the war started, and
the economy and earnings may not be as
strong in 2027 as we're seeing this
year. I wouldn't take rate cuts off the
table for 2027. I think it's overly
hawkish to assume we're going to be
walking into hikes next year.
>> Sarah, just going forward, would
anything make you rethink the rotation
trade that currently is underway?
>> Well, first of all, I I mentioned follow
earnings for old tech is still going to
be the leader with earnings growth. I
just think tech has moved a little bit
too far, too fast in terms of its
performance, but earnings are still
there for tech stocks. Second is if we
go more to a defensive environment, the
geopolitical issues in the Middle East
caused investors to feel a little bit
more defensive under the surface. That's
when tech tends to outperform. Now that
that is moving out of the way and we can
focus on the broad economic drivers such
as manufacturing data, which is had a
really nice pickup and continued
spending by the high-end consumer, that
should be better for a snapback in
financials, in consumers, and some of
these industrial companies that were
hurt by the squeeze of inflation and
higher tariffs.
>> Sarah Malik of Nuveen, thank you so much
for being with us this morning as we do
await a Fed rate decision. We're also
waiting those retail sales, and that's
going to be really important about 20
minutes time as we get a sense of just
how much resilience there is in consumer
spending as we did hear from David
Tinsley. There has been quite a bit.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's a
Bloomberg brief with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie.
>> Lisa, thank you. SpaceX overtaking
Amazon in value to become the fifth
largest stock in the world. Shares
[music] closed nearly
4% higher, pushing its market cap to
2.65 trillion dollars. On the stock's
intraday high, SpaceX topped Microsoft
to [music] briefly become the world's
fourth largest stock.
In sports, it was a day of superstar
action at the World Cup. Kylian Mbappé
scoring [music] two goals to power
France over Senegal. Erling Haaland also
scoring twice for Norway against Iraq.
And Lionel Messi stealing the show with
a hat-trick for Argentina in their win
[music] over Algeria.
The DOJ charging five people in
connection with an alleged plot to use
explosives and snipers to target
attendees at Sunday's UFC event outside
the White House. The alleged plot is
just the latest example in a series of
attempted attacks against President
Donald Trump and other prominent
individuals.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief. Link
up.
>> Thank you so much, Vanya. Up next, the
morning calls plus Don Rizzo of T. Rowe
Price on what's next for SpaceX after it
overtakes Amazon in value. Just what are
the revenues of these companies? How
does that compare to the market [music]
capitalization? That's coming up next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> The options market's been setting
[music] records actually for six
straight years. I think everybody knew
SpaceX was going to be big. That first
day activity, uh we saw 1.77 million
contracts trade. We've actually seen a
trend this year about a third of the
listed uh stocks out [music] there are
kind of have this upside skew. It really
does tell you what investors are
thinking.
>> And they are thinking they want to be
bullish. That was Henry Schwartz of
[music] Cboe. And when you take a look
at what they're thinking this morning,
at least when it comes to the tech
trade, you could see the optimism
bleeding into equities up about a half a
percent on the Nasdaq, taking back some
of the losses down more than 1%
yesterday led by the [music]
semiconductor stocks. A brutal day for
them. This morning, more broadly, about
a tenth of a percent gain on S&P and
Russell 2000 futures [music]
ahead of what could be a really
interesting day. On one hand, you got
SpaceX and the ongoing rally there. On
the other hand, you have [music] what
could percolate out of the Fed Reserve
with Kevin Warsh unveiling his view as
Fed chair for the first time. Time now
for the morning calls. First up
Bernstein raising its price target on
Intel to $100 saying the company [music]
should benefit from stronger server
demand. Those shares up more than 3% in
pre-market trading. Next up Wells Fargo
trimming its price target on FedEx
[music] to $425
saying next week's earnings results will
be more important than the guidance.
Those [music] shares essentially flat.
And finally, Citi hiking its price
target on Micron to $1200 from $840.
>> [music]
>> The analyst increasing the company's
fiscal 2026 and 2027 estimates to
reflect better than expected memory
prices [music] this year. Those shares
almost up 3% after being absolutely
hammered yesterday. [music] The
whipsawing continues in the semi space.
Not so much when it comes to SpaceX.
[music] SpaceX on track for a fourth
straight day of gains. The company
overtaking Amazon to become the fifth
most valuable in the world. Ed Ludlow of
Bloomberg Tech writing, "The IPO wasn't
just a bet that investors would buy the
stock. It was a bet that existing
shareholders would sell it." Ed joins us
now for more. Ed, this is such a great
point because we've all been wondering
what are all the newly minted
billionaires going to do with their
money. And it turns out keep it there.
Keep it in SpaceX. Why hasn't there been
more cashing out?
>> Well, in the first instance like the
lockup is complicated. It's staggered.
You know, there is some liquidity or
some some freedom in the shares in
August but a very small portion of them.
And so like we've been focused on this
idea that you know, taking into account
today's pre-market gain, the stock's up
50% from its IPO price. It's probably
just better to talk in terms of market
capitalization. You know, it's a $2.7
trillion company ahead of the opening
trade today. And there's just scarcity
because only 4% of that that market cap
shares are available to trade right now.
And the retail allocation of of 20 to
30% is probably a big factor here. But,
the the reality is like, um, in an
environment where options have just
launched, there is price discovery. Um,
there were still clamoring to get hold
of shares outside of the IPO allocation,
and it's just, um, not trading, shall we
say, on fundamentals. What it is trading
on it is is a bit of a mystery, Lisa. I
think you've got great guests throughout
the morning to ask about that, but like,
uh, the scarcity element's really
important here.
Read the details of the lockup is the
point I'm making.
>> Yeah, this is a great point. The idea
that maybe there's not selling pressure
cuz a lot of the holders can't sell at
this point. Ed, from your vantage point,
do most people in the tech space seem to
think that the valuation's gotten a bit
excessive?
>> Yes. I mean, I put a post out on X
yesterday about its price to sales being
above 150
compared to Amazon, right, which is low
single digits. And people said, "Well,
why are you bothering with that? Why
don't you do price to earnings?" And I
was like, "Well, what's the point? Uh,
what earnings?" Um, you know, there
isn't a metric in these early days that
gives you a fair of of valuation.
The the thing I write about in in the
Tech in Depth column is like, even when
the the lockup period is done, all those
venture firms that have realized tens of
billions of dollars of gains on their
initial investment will redistribute the
shares to LPs. They don't give them
cash. They just say, "I sign ownership
of these shares to you." And the
question at that point is whether those
endowment funds and pension funds like
the venture capitalist believe that
actually 3 trillion's quite modest, and
they they they see it at a time horizon
that's that's near-term to it being a $5
trillion company. You know, there are
lots of bullish people out there that
really believe that's the case. And you
will have seen that Elon Musk tweeted or
posted on X this week, um, that he sees,
uh, some pretty out-of-this-world
financials from this company by 2030.
Um, and and it's whether you believe
that or not, and you hold the stock as a
result.
>> Ed Ludlow of Bloomberg, thank you so
much as always and we look forward to
hearing more
on your show later this morning. Don
Rizzo of T. Rowe Price writing, at this
valuation it all comes down to long-term
AI positioning. Owning and harnessing
the model is key and now they have
strength in both. Tom joins us now for
more. Don, what do you make of the
question that we were just talking about
with Ed, which is do you feel like this
market has just gone way too far in part
on technicals that favor it for now?
>> Well, first off, thanks for having me
guys. It's great to be here and you
know, Ed always does such great work.
So,
look, if I take a step back on SpaceX,
you you really have to think about it as
three separate businesses, right?
There's launch where they have a near
monopoly in sending stuff up into space.
There's connectivity where I think they
have a really good positioning in terms
of offering Wi-Fi not just in the US,
but worldwide and
and and then there's finally there's AI,
right? And you know, we were the debate
before is what's happening with the
fundamentals at SpaceX and I would argue
that all of the stocks trading is basing
on pricing in the terminal value of the
AI business and what is that going to
look like in 2030 and you know, what I
what I referenced before is is really
around the cursor merger, right? So, so
cursor has a wonderful harness, one of
the best in the world at coding and now
with the merger with SpaceX, they have a
leading edge model in the form of Grok
and I think what we've learned time and
time again is that in AI software and AI
native software, owning the model plus
the harness results in differentiated
wonderful user experiences.
The other thing that you have to think
about on the AI business is they've been
renting these GPUs $50 billion a
gigawatt. So, look, the stock is up 50%.
Of course, in those situations, we
always consider risk management. We
consider portfolio construction.
You have to think about position sizing.
But, I think what's happening with the
stock is looking into 2030 fundamentals.
And what is that going to look like for
AI specifically?
>> Well, 2030 fundamentals, Elon Musk says
that he's going to have a trillion
dollars in revenue. Morgan Stanley puts
it at more like 470 billion
4700 billion billion dollars. Where do
you see revenue lining up in 2030?
>> Well, obviously, [clears throat] I'm not
going to get into our internal
estimates. But, if if we think about how
you get to hundreds of billions of
dollars of revenue, it comes to what can
they monetize per gigawatt, right? And
so, what was so interesting about the
Google and the Anthropic rental deals is
that they were monetizing the at roughly
50 billion dollars a gigawatt, which is
two to three times the average rate in
the spot market today. So, how much of
that premium was just the fact that
we're incredibly short compute? How much
of it that it was Airbnb-like rental
deals and that it's short-term, not
long-term? And how much of it is that
SpaceX is truly differentiated at
standing up 100,000-plus GPU coherent
clusters? I mean, I think that's the
question to be seen. So, how do you get
to hundreds of billions? You maintain or
that number comes down a bit. 50 billion
a gigawatt maybe coming down a bit over
time. And then you get to a path to
10-plus gigawatts, right? That's how you
get to those type of numbers. But, it's
a far way out. We have extraordinary
competition in the form of OpenAI and
Anthropic. And I think Ed did a really
great job in his piece of laying out all
the different technical factors on the
stock.
>> Well, some analysts will say that Corsa
doesn't have the scale of OpenAI and
Anthropic. How quickly can it get to
that level?
>> Yeah, first off, you know that we've
been investors in both OpenAI and
Anthropic. And
And the thing that I've been so stunned
by is just how quickly these businesses
can grow once they catch virality inside
the enterprise. And so I'll give you an
example. When I did the Anthropic round
in the summer in the global technology
strategy, Anthropic was just doing $5
billion
of run rate revenue. They're now doing
47 billion plus. I mean, I've never seen
numbers like this. And And why is that?
It's because AI is this incredible
productivity-enhancing tool. You know,
OpenAI and Anthropic widely expected,
you know, if you look at what people are
thinking to be to
you know, combined a couple hundred
billion dollars of run rate revenue by
the end of the year. Combined their
valuations are in the the $2 trillion
range. You know, I I've never seen
growth like this in AI. And the question
is, can Cursor plus X as model plus
harness really carve out a place in the
enterprise? And And let's see, you know,
we don't know yet.
>> Don, what would you see that would make
you bearish?
>> Well, a couple different things I think
about. So number one, I think about N-1
models a lot, right? Open source models
outside of China or even the open source
models from Nvidia. And do open source
models come in and lower the
the price of a leading edge token? I
think what I see today in what the
tokens are going to kind of distribute
like within the enterprise and
personally is there's going to be
a bifurcation, almost like the
smartphone market. You know, the vast
majority of smartphones today are, you
know, Android phones sub $400 in value.
But all the value in smartphones is in
the $800 plus smartphone market.
I think that's almost what it's going to
look like in tokens. All the value of
tokens are going to accrue to the
leading edge. And who's at the leading
edge for models today? Only four
companies: OpenAI, Anthropic, Google,
and X. That's it. So I think the value
will accrue to those leading edge
models. And it's imperative to have a a
plus a harness in order to have a
differentiated product.
>> Tom Reso, T Rowe Price, thanks for your
insights. As we look to a fourth day of
gains on SpaceX after their IPO. We're
also looking for some retail sales that
should come out. A read on the US
consumer in just under just a over 5
minutes time. A question here about how
much this starts to perculate out into
consumer price inflation, but also
whether it's really a two different
stories that aren't really converging in
any way.
>> Yeah, and I'm really more looking
forward to seeing the retail prices and
the data after this MOU is signed and
potentially in the middle of the summer
if oil prices continue to decline, are
consumers then taking that money they
were spending on much higher gasoline
prices and putting it elsewhere.
>> Yeah, are you going to start to see
people traveling more although they have
been traveling. I mean that's a
question. Where have they pulled back,
right? I mean ultimately
>> They've just been choiceful.
>> They've they've pulled back on their
loose purchases. It seems like that's
>> [laughter]
>> That's like what ultimately we can see
with Ferrari looking to some of their
most reliant customers potentially. That
is clearly who we're talking about these
retail sales.
>> That's a new that's a different layer of
inflation, [music]
you know, Knicks tickets, Luche buying.
That's just a different
>> Birkin bags. Yeah, exactly. This is not
exactly
out of my price range. Coming up,
Jonathan Pingle of UBS on why the Fed
could stay on hold until 2028 [music]
despite some calls and frankly market
pricing calling up for about an 80%
chance of [music] a rate hike by the end
of this year. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> See a little bit of a lift ahead of the
Fed rate decision ahead of data that
we're about to get about 20 seconds
away. [music] Retail sales in the United
States. A lift right now across the
equity space although really seeing it
with the Nasdaq in particular up a half
a percent. [music] When you take a look
at bonds, you did see a bid into bonds
earlier, kind of wobbling at the front
end when you see it just up about a
basis point, 4.07%
[music] and then in the crude space, you
could see a bit of a fading in the
expectations around the MOU given some
of the rhetoric that we've heard. Right
now, we do have retail [music] sales
crossing. Michael McKee has the numbers.
Mike, what do you see?
>> Well, shop we must. That seems to be the
motto for Americans. Also, throw in
inflation and you get a retail sales
headline number up 9/10 of a percent
after 5/10 last month and the
expectation was for only 6/10. Now, take
out autos and it's 8/10, take out autos
and gas and it's 5/10, which is still
better than forecast and is still a
relatively strong number. The retail
sales control group, particularly strong
this time. That's what goes into GDP for
retail sales up 7/10 of a percent after
a half percent gain in the month of
April. The forecast was for a 4/10 gain.
So, it is altogether a relatively good
number in terms of Americans keeping up
with the economy at this point. Now, the
question is and we can't immediately do
this, but the question is how much of
that do you deflate for inflation? We
know it's hit gasoline prices. What we
don't know at this point is how much of
it's made into other prices at this
point.
>> And that's going to be a key question
for the Fed later this afternoon. We'll
get to that in just one second. When you
take a look at the market reaction, at
the front end of the yield curve, it had
been selling off. You had seen yields
rising. They rise a little bit further
in response to this
given the fact that this does just sort
of lean into the idea that there is
resilience, that consumers are strong.
When you take a look at equities, at
least in the in the space in the tech
space, you are seeing them hold on to
gains. Also, just barely hanging on to
gains on S&P futures up about a tenth of
a percent. Mike, how does the Fed deal
with a resilient consumer at the same
time that yes, they're getting a
reprieve from lower energy prices, but
that isn't the whole story for
inflation?
>> Well, it's definitely going to be one of
the top questions that Kevin Warsh gets
today in his first and we hope first of
many news conferences, but Warsh has got
kind of a tough job and so does the Fed
at this point because they do have a
stronger economy than they anticipated
at the same time they've got more
inflation than they anticipated. No
change in rates expected today
other than we'll probably see them drop
the easing bias that they had.
Then the question becomes what's in the
dot plot? Do they take out all the cuts?
There was one cut forecast for 2026.
Do they take those out?
And how do they adjust the forecast now
that we're seeing stronger than expected
growth? And of course for Warsh himself
we don't know if he's going to put in a
dot at all. He said he doesn't like them
and he said he doesn't want to.
And as I mentioned, is this going to be
the first or the last of his news
conferences? He doesn't want to do as
many as have been done.
Communications under review, that's
probably something he'll talk about
today because it's one of the things he
can do relatively quickly is
at least bring that up as an issue for
the board to decide. And of course
everybody's going to want to know
if you have a strong economy like this
and inflation up, how do you deal with
the Trump elephant in the room? The
question about whether you were just
appointed to cut interest rates and now
you really can't.
>> Michael McKee, we'll be looking out for
you throughout the day and of course in
that press conference. Looking forward
to your question as well. Jonathan
Pingle of UBS joins now and I want to
get your immediate reaction, Jonathan,
to what we just saw. We got retail sales
coming in stronger than expected. The
control group rising to the highest pace
going back to the end of March. At what
point is this a signal that inflation
maybe is broader based because there is
this really strong US consumer?
>> So, when I actually look at these
numbers, I don't look at this pace of
consumer spending as being all that
inflationary. And I mean, I like just to
put some numbers on it, you know, when
we got out the relatively strong April
data, after services were added, and
this is to Mike McKee's point, it was
deflated. Annualized, it was only 1.3%
real spending growth.
We actually are tracking and thought
we'd get to one in the second quarter.
So, we were hoping we would get some
decent numbers in May and June, and we
wouldn't have that sort of more sluggish
pace. We also have to remember this is
like peak fiscal stimulus, right? All
those refund checks have gone out. We've
had the withholding adjustments.
I mean, I you know, yes, this is great
news. Could be a sign that we are seeing
a a real pick-up in consumer spending.
But at the same time, we do have this
tension where um you know, there's been
a lot of cash sent back to households.
And if this is it, and we're only going
to run sort of a little over 2%
annualized, that's not really super
strong for the US. So, I think for this
one real retail sales report, I think
it's actually good news that it wasn't
slower.
Um but, you know, we were sort of
expecting a little above consensus
control, and uh we got that. Um but, I
don't think this is yet a sign the
economy is really overheating. I think
combined with the MOU, whatever that is,
I think that's actually probably good
news for the FOMC today.
>> You expect that there are no cuts
appropriate until 2028, and that
probably the safe Fed that is on hold
until then. What would you hear
potentially today that would surprise
you? Or are you thinking that maybe
there is a bias in the markets that this
is going to be a dovish Fed share, Kevin
Warsh, or that this frankly is going to
be one that hearkens back to his 2010
days, and is a bit more hawkish?
>> So, I'm prepared to be surprised.
Um okay, when at 2:00, I wouldn't
underestimate the hawkish shift from the
committee. You know, getting rid of rate
cuts, you know, we'll see some hikes
appropriate. Uh people thinking pipes
are appropriate this year. You know, I
do think they're going to probably nudge
down growth a little up to uh the
unemployment rate in the out years, but
certainly more restrictive policy is
going to be the message from the
statement and the SEP, pretty sure. Um
but for Kevin Warsh, you know, there've
been a lot of There's been a lot of
I mean, there's been a lot of iterations
of him in his career. I mean, I was on
the board staff when when he was a
governor. Remember quite vividly. I
mean, I don't want to oversell that, but
um you know, he's gone from a period of
time being hawkish, more dovish lately.
I don't actually know we know who we're
going to get. And then combine that with
he wants to talk less, communicate less,
and provide less guidance. Um we could
be setting up for a a really
disappointing lack of clarity after
Marcus getting used to 20 years of
Powell, Yellen, Bernanke.
>> How does the market react to that level
of potential not having a lot of clarity
on who Kevin Warsh is?
>> Uh I mean, I think it I I think it does
raise the risk of uh you know, forward
pricing not aligning as closely with
where the committee is than we're used
to. And also, you know, if he's going to
talk less, everyone else is going to
talk just as much as they were before.
You know, certainly the regional Fed
presidents. So, he does risk, you know,
ceding the communications uh to others.
But I also think that, you know, if if
he's not going to be, you know, as
transparent and clear as his
predecessors,
there is just more going to be more room
for confusion, right? Whether it's, you
know, people interpreting a comment as a
green light to price in more hikes or
price out the hikes. Um we'll really
have to see, but it sets us up for
something really unusual because we also
haven't really heard him in the public
eye as much as his predecessors when
they assumed the chairmanship.
>> Michael McKee has some more details from
the retail sales report. I want to bring
you back in, Mike. Uh it is a notable
because there was this huge pop in
gasoline sales, right? The the sort of
sales at the pump were up some 3.6%.
What are you seeing more broadly?
>> Well, I think the gasoline thing is a
sort of a well-done kind of number and
nobody's going to be surprised by that.
But what is interesting is that there
are a couple of areas that did not see
any gains including food and we know
food prices were up so inflation should
have added to that but food and grocery
stores both flat on the month. Uh the
clothing and accessory stores up a 3/10
which is a reverse of what we saw the
prior month and it doesn't This is May
so it doesn't include Anne Marie and her
6 million best friends buying Knicks
gear uh the last 2 weeks. We'll see that
next time. Uh but uh non-store retailers
were a little stronger 1 and 1/2% uh up.
Food and drinking places the only kind
of uh discretionary spending services
spending that's in this report were down
by a 10th of a percent after rising 9/10
last month. So people stayed home and
maybe bought stuff on uh the internet.
Uh they didn't buy stuff for their
houses but uh
they uh
they may have bought a little more
gasoline than they anticipated having to
pay for.
>> Michael McKee, uh thank you so much for
that and Anne Marie I believe wants to
clarify that she's the OG uh and
actually
>> This is not new.
>> You're not buying gear because you've
already had all the gear.
>> I might buy something special with the
finals getting closer. The championship.
Haven't decided yet but I was at game
five.
>> Just want to rub it in.
>> The other way people are looking at the
World Cup type of bump and whether that
ultimately is also going to boost retail
sales. I'm trying to bring it back to
the retail sales. Jonathan uh uh
>> Well, in June in 1994 you did get a
little bit of bump in June July.
>> Yeah, so there you go and potentially
even more so although I don't know if
anyone has any money left over to spend
given how expensive [laughter] some of
these tickets are. Uh from your
perspective are you expecting any
commentary either on the balance sheet,
any commentary on Fed communication when
it comes to constricting other governors
and how much they're going to be
speaking?
>> I don't know how much he's going to be
able to restrict the other governors. I
mean, given their independent oversight
boards and many of those boards with
they they would like their regional Fed
presidents out. You know, it draws
attention to their cities, their local
economies. Um they have sort of every
incentive to get the regional Fed
presidents out and
on Bloomberg. Um
you know,
when I think about what he's going to
do, I mean, I think one of the initial
tasks really will be the statement
itself, right? Like the statement has
had a certain amount of uh
repetitiveness for a while. Uh you know,
some some phrases that really are just
so pat, they have no meaning that if
there's a significant overhaul of the
statement, I would say that not only
does that signal he is going to try to
make changes, but he managed to get the
consensus to do it at the meeting, which
shows a certain amount of ability to
drive consensus. Other than that, many
of these changes I think are going to
take longer. So, I would expect him to
talk about, you know, subcommittees
going out and looking at their
communication strategy, the balance
sheet, uh etc. Um but at the very first
meeting,
I don't know how much fundamental change
there's going to be.
>> Yeah, a lot of people saying he's
probably not going to rock the boat.
Although, we'll see. If he drops the
dot, wow, all bets are off. Uh Jonathan
Pingle of UBS, thank you so much. If you
are just joining the program, we did get
retail sales in the United States for
the month of May. Came in significantly
above expectations, 0.9% for the
headline versus a 0.6% expected. When
you strip out autos and gas, you could
see 5 tenths of a percent gain versus a
0.3% uh that was expected by economists.
And that retail sales control group, 0.7
percent gain. And you could see that
that is the most going back to the end
of March. So, that resilience still
under the hood. And that I think is a
reason why some people are saying, is it
just the gasoline story or is there just
a lot of cash, whether it's peak uh peak
stimulus checks coming back in, or
whether it's just that people are
feeling pretty good from their stock
purchases?
>> It's clearly also outside of what's
going on in energy because outside of
those receipts at gas stations, which
accounted for 3.4%, you're up 7/10 of a
percent. So, sales are happening and
there is a lot of resilience, but you
think about what Jonathan just said
there. It's in terms of individuals and
households are having more money to
spend right now, but is that it for the
rest of the year? That fiscal impulse,
is this all we're going to be living on
for the rest of the year? And that's
what it looks like.
>> Yeah, well, right now people are looking
at two potential wage growth that we
could get to offset what some people
have been taking from their savings.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomberg Brief with Bonnie Quiten.
Bonnie.
>> Lisa, thank you. Recapping the data that
we just got then, retail sales coming in
higher than expected in the month of
May, jumping 0.9%.
The sign US consumers are remaining
resilient despite the highest average
gas prices in almost four years.
In Georgia, Republican Congressman Mike
Collins defeating Derrick Dooley in a
runoff election for the Senate
nomination. The Trump-backed candidate
will now [music] face incumbent Democrat
Jon Ossoff in November. It's one of a
handful of races that will determine
Senate control.
AI taking center stage today [music] at
the G7 summit with top executives
meeting to discuss policy and potential
risks. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman and
Anthropic [music] CEO Dario Amodei among
those joining President Donald Trump as
he wraps up talks with world leaders.
And that is your Bloomberg Brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead, plus
Blake Gwen of RBC Capital Markets as the
bond [music] market enters uncertain
territory. From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance this morning.
>> The question, [music] which you may or
may not answer today, is what are you
going to do going forward? Are you going
to be active using the balance sheet and
helping funding markets stabilize? Right
now, they don't need to because bond
volatility is totally under control.
Funding markets are totally good. We
kind of need the markets to
pressure pressure them to provide more
liquidity. And the reason why we need
more liquidity is because the economy
[music] is booming.
>> That was Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley
looking for some sort of potential
pullback that could prompt a Federal
Reserve more liquidity by saying the
balance sheet in the T-bill market on
the margins and lead to an even [music]
higher year-end or year. Right now,
we're looking at a market that is taking
everything in stride, up about a tenth
of a percent on the [music] S&P ahead of
the open. You can see 10-year yields now
back down 4.43%. Hovering just sort of
ice
oscillating around this level as people
anticipate [music] what Fed chair Kevin
Warsh might seem like in crude prices
just above where they closed yesterday
as [music] people take a look at that
MOU and what might ultimately happen or
not. This idea of can we say the all
clear
>> [music]
>> really has been sounded for this war and
that oil prices truly are going to be on
a straight path lower.
>> This signal from the presidency wanted
wants this [music] to end, but he just
said in the last hour or two that if he
doesn't like what he's seeing out of
Iran, he's willing to restart strikes.
Now, obviously that's going to be
rhetorical [music]
deterrents that the president is
setting, but if you look at this draft
MOU, certainly they want not just the
Strait of Hormuz to be open, but willing
to give Iran [music]
waivers so that Iranian crude could be
hitting the market.
>> Yeah, people are going to be looking for
all of these details [music] to really
understand what's in that. Less than an
hour from the cash open, here's where
the action is. It is in the individual
names. Here are your morning movers with
Deirdre and Deirdre.
>> Hi Lisa, we start with Space X on track
for a fourth straight session of gain
shares up 2 and 1/2% in the premarket.
The stock has surged over 50% since
[music] it IPO'd less than a week ago.
Uh now pushing SpaceX [music] past
Amazon when it comes to market value,
and the gains have been so dramatic that
[music] Elon Musk is apparently nearly a
third of the way to a second trillion
dollars. That's according to our
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, and as
[music] I said earlier, maybe we need to
rethink the name. Turning to Lionsgate,
those shares are falling 6.3% in the
pre-market after Netflix came out and
disputed a [music] report that it was
interested in buying the studio. Uh that
speculation had caused the the stock to
surge, though it's now giving back some
of those gains, but the idea was that
Lionsgate could be the next target as we
continue to see this wave of
consolidation in the media industry. And
we end on Lazy Boy, those shares are
soaring up 17% [music]
in the pre-market after it uh blew past
expectations for last quarter and
delivered an upbeat [music] outlook, and
retail sales confirming that momentum uh
with furniture sales up 1% in May
compared uh to the prior month. Lisa.
[music]
>> Everyone just wants to relax. Thank you
so much. Great work, Kyra, as always for
that. Counting down to the opening bell.
Here's the trading [music] diary for the
day and week ahead. 10:30 a.m. President
Donald Trump Trump delivering a press
conference from the G7. 2:00 p.m.
Eastern, Fed rate decision followed by
the big one, hearing from Fed chair
Kevin Warsh himself, the news conference
that could set the tone now for his
[music] tenure. And Thursday, Bank of
England rate decision plus another round
of jobless claims. Friday, US markets
are closed for the Juneteenth holiday in
the US, and Iran [music] are expected to
sign an interim peace deal. Let's turn
back to the Federal Reserve. Investors
widely expect the central bank to hold
rates steady today, [music] and many are
not expecting a policy change for at
least a full year. Blake Gwinn of RBC
Capital Markets writing, "A flat Fed
path is a very unnatural equilibrium for
market pricing. Blake joins us for now.
Blake, great to see you. Thank you for
being here. You're not wrong. And right
now what we're seeing in markets is a
real unease, at least if you take a look
at the two-10s yield curve. Suddenly the
flattest in more than a year as people
try to parse out, what does this mean
for a Fed to be on hold? We're used to
worrying about a hike or a cut. Why is
that so uneasy?
>> The market wants a bias, right? I mean,
if you look historically
at the spread between Fed funds and
two-year rates, it's historically around
40 basis points. So,
you know, we've gone through a few times
where the market has held on to a flat
pricing, but it's only when rates are at
the zero lower bound and there's really
nowhere else to go. So,
you saw how quickly we kind of moved
from a cutting bias
to this kind of hiking bias. And you saw
periods over the last few years where
even though the Fed wasn't actively
cutting, the market can just hold on to
this downward slope and this expectation
for cuts. And even when the Fed's not
cutting, they just kind of roll it
forward. So, I think that's what markets
are going to do now with hikes. That
even if the Fed is on hold, even if
they're not hiking, we're just going to
keep rolling forward those expectations
for hikes.
>> You know, the real story though might
not be necessarily in the Fed policy
rate. And this is what Mike Wilson was
getting at. The idea that the Fed had
been shrinking its balance sheet, sort
of quantitative tightening, and then it
stopped doing that earlier this year and
it started to expand it out just a
little bit. The idea of injecting
liquidity into the market that Mike
Wilson said has been instrumental in the
rally. That stopped. Do you think that
that's going to restart under a Kevin
Warsh that in the past has said he wants
to shrink the balance sheet?
>> I think it's going to be difficult.
The same way that I feel about his
effect on rate policy is that, you know,
he's not one man. This is a committee
and I think those decisions are still
going to be made by a committee. And I
think that committee has made very clear
that they're uncomfortable with reserves
getting too low and some of the effects
that come with that. And I say it's
clear because last year they started
buying bills again in December. So, we
know that they, you know, really do not
like to see pressure in those funding
markets. So, he's going to have to
convince the rest of those committee
members that this is actually the right
path. And I think you've seen Miron, now
he's no longer there, and Lori Logan
have kind of presented these ideas of
like, here's some things that we could
do to get the balance sheet smaller. I
don't think anybody has endorsed those,
but they're just saying here's a menu of
options. And I think even
you know, Logan, when you kind of read
through her speech, you know, there's a
lot of downsides to a lot of these
things. So, it's it's really a
cost-benefit analysis. I think it's
something that's going to take a long
time. Ultimately, I don't think they're
going to get major changes on the
balance sheet. I think it's going to be
some small changes here and there, but
uh you know, no big wholesale changes in
the way they operate the balance sheet.
>> is everyone hyping this up too much? As
you say, everything is going to take a
very long time. Is this going to be
almost maybe a pretty boring meeting?
>> Um well, I mean, it can't be boring with
War speaking, cuz we just don't know.
Um and I think, you know, it we don't
have a benchmark in the way that, you
know, when Powell is out there every
month, we can kind of look at them the
changes from the last time he spoke, and
you know, kind of sense where he's going
with things. War is a bit of a wild
card, because we don't have that prior
that prior experience. Now, I I would
point this out about his prior comments.
One, he was campaigning for the job, and
we know what it takes to get the job. He
had to sound dovish. So, we don't know
how you know, now that he has the job
locked up, we don't know how much of
that goes away. The second is The second
thing is he was talking for himself.
Now, he has to represent the committee,
if he's doing the job right. When he
speaks at the FOMC meeting, he's not
speaking his own views, he's speaking
the committee consensus. So, that could
sound more hawkish.
Um and the third thing I would say is he
does, I think, run the risk, if he comes
out very dovish, and the rest of the
committee's moving hawkish, he almost
marks himself as irrelevant right from
the beginning. I don't think he wants to
undermine his own credibility by saying
I am way out of consensus with the rest
of this group.
>> a risk that he's just as a chair in name
only.
>> Uh
I mean, I I I I would
I would hesitate to go that far, but
yeah, I mean, there he's one man on a
committee um at the end of the day. Now,
they have some power to set the agenda,
to kind of uh you know,
set and frame how things are being
discussed, how the research is being
done. But at the end of the day these
these decisions are going to be a vote
with the rest of the committee and we
know where they're going. They're going
to move more hawkish in this meeting.
>> Will he take questions?
>> We've been debating on how many
questions he actually takes. What what
what time the press conference actually
ends. I think 3:00 p.m. is probably the
over under here. I mean I would not be
surprised given everything that he said
about you know communication.
One thing that he can unilaterally
change is just take less questions or
the questions he takes he gives very
brief very succinct short answers. So I
wouldn't be surprised to see a lot
shorter press conferences than Powell.
>> Blake Gwen, thank you so much for being
with us. Blake Gwen of RBC Capital
Markets and thank you for making it
exciting cuz it is going to be exciting
later today. And coming up at 1:30 on
Bloomberg Surveillance the Fed decides.
Bob Michael of JP Morgan, Subadra
Rajappa of SocGen, Rich Clarida of PIMCO
and Kate Moore of Citi because all of
them and Marie think that it's going to
be really interesting and that I think I
agree with them.
>> definitely it's definitely going to be
interesting cuz the first
meeting of Kevin Warsh it's the tone
he's going to set. But if things are
going to take a really long time for
where he wants to get to from point A to
point B, then maybe everyone is over
hyping how scandalous he may be. Does he
dot? Does he not dot? I love Torsten
Slok. The number of words in the FOI
FOMC statement likely going down. So the
statement comes down I just want to do a
word count.
>> Yeah, a lot of people are looking to
Polymarkets for how long is the press
conference going to be, whether there is
a dot or not to dot and and how many
words will be in the statement. A real
question also just about what kind of
tone he's going to set in terms of will
he be establishment or not. After the
press conference tomorrow morning we
will get all sorts of insight from Ed
Yardeni of Yardeni Research, Scott
Kronert of Citigroup, former Kansas City
Fed President Esther George and Charles
Schwab CEO Rick Wooster [music] as we
parse through exactly a new regime on
the Federal Reserve as well as a new
regime in markets amid a tech boom and
revolution.
>> [music]
>> All of that coming up from New York.
Thank you so much for joining us here on
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good [music]
morning.